FILM
FELIX Friday 16 MARCH 2012 35
All hail the crime-fighting Hobo
Some films are bad. Some films are so
bad they’re good. And there are some
films which are so bad, they’re awe-
some.
The plot is neatly summarised in
the title. The Hobo (played by Rutger
Hauer of all people!) arrives at a town
black with crime and corruption. He
decides to take a stand and starts clean-
ing up the streets – with a shotgun, nat-
urally. This attracts the attention of The
Drake, the particularly vile crime-boss
of the town, who calls for the Hobo’s
head on a platter.
This film was originally a spoof trail-
er for Planet Terror and Death Proof
(a collective homage to grindhouse by
Robert Rodrigeuz and Quentin Taranti-
no respectively) but was lucky enough
(and so were we) to be made into a fea-
Rhys Davies
Director Jason Elsener
Screenwriters Rob Cotterill,
Niv Fichman, Paul Gross, Frank
Siracusa
Cast Rutger Hauer
Hobo with a Shotgun
ture film. Other entries which were not
so lucky include: Werewolf Women of
the SS, Don’t, and Thanksgiving.
Cinematically, the film looks like it
was made in the 70s for that authentic
exploitation feel. The writing and the
acting are equally hammy. You get the
feeling that someone was sitting over
their typewriter, thinking, “Oh yeah,
this is going to be really deep and
meaningful.” That earnestness trans-
forms the tragedy (in any other film)
into comedy.
Likewise, the violence and gore in
this film is so over-the-top, it is beyond
ridiculous, fitting for something associ-
ated with Tarantino and Rodriguez. It’s
the kind of violence that your 16-year-
old self would get a real thrill out of; it
provoked howls of immature laughter
from the sofa when I watched it with
my housemates.
So far, I’ve only explained how it’s
bad. And it is bad, believe me, but it
is also so very awesome. This comes
from two main factors, I believe. First,
the enthusiasm of those involved. It is
clear that no one in the cast is trying
to bag an Oscar with this film. Instead,
they are free to enjoy themselves and
make a fun film. That is part of what
makes this so refreshing to watch.
The other element that sublimes this
film into gold is Rutger Hauer. Unrec-
ognisable as Roy Batty from Blade
Runner or the ‘Man with the beer’ (A
series of ads by Guinness, as, in a black
coat, Hauer looks like a Guinness),
Hauer conveys a great deal of complex-
ity in the character of the Hobo. At the
start of the film, we see the Hobo push-
ing a trolley around, rooting around in
rubbish bins for food and cigarettes.
He begs and degrades himself in order
to get enough money for the one thing
he wants more than anything else (not
a shotgun but I won’t spoil it). Not par-
ticularly easy to watch. But when he
converses with another character, he
flits between simple human desires and
possibly mad ramblings. Even though
he is the sole protagonist, it is hard to
be sure where he is coming from. In the
entire film, he is the only character ele-
vated from a 2D cut-out, thanks largely
to Hauer’s engaging portrayal.
He also blows away a paedophilic
Santa Claus. Did I mention that?
On the back of Oscar season, there
are plenty of deep and artistic films to
watch. Also, summer is coming, bring-
ing with it the usual clutch of block-
busters. This is neither. If you want to
watch either of those, you know where
to go. If instead you want largely mind-
less violence to the point of hilarity,
I advise you check out Hobo With A
Shotgun from your local Blockbuster.
Boris Johnson is getting serious about winning his London Mayor campaign
Glenn Close is a Nobbs
No, this is not a story about an Irish
lesbian. Sure, Albert Nobbs (Close) is
actually a woman posing as a man in
19th Century Ireland, and the slightly
misleading trailer might make you
think that Albert is sexually interested
in women. However, Albert Nobbs is
a story that has very little to do with
sex. Instead, it’s about companionship,
loneliness and survival during tough,
conservative times where social and
gender divisions prevented females
from the working class being taken at
all seriously. The decision to dress like
a bloke was really the only method that
Nobbs could think of, at the young age
of 14, and she has kept up with this act
for decades.
Working as a butler in a hotel, earning
an honest living, saving up, and dream-
ing of a bright future, Nobbs is solely
focused on being good at her job. She
has very little interest in socialising or
speaking a word to her colleagues, and
John Park
Director Rodrigo García
Screenwriters Glenn Close, John
Banville, George Moore (short story)
Cast Glenn Close, Janet McTeer,
Mia Wasikowska, Aaron Johnson
Albert Nobbs
everyone at the hotel agrees that she is
not only shy, but is also a bit of an ec-
centric. The only real method she com-
municates with anyone is in her own
room, talking to herself as she counts
the money she has managed to save up
over the years. It’s sad and depressing
to see a person this isolated, but this is
all she has ever known, and she is fine
with it.
Close may not look enough like a
man on screen for everyone around to
be tricked by her disguise, but that is
really not the point here. She has had
to pretend for most of her life, and this
restriction has naturally had an effect
on Nobbs, most notably her confi-
dence. She is always on the look-out,
paranoid and absolutely petrified at the
thought that someone might find out.
And Close’s rigid and restrained perfor-
mance perfectly embodies the nervous
Nobbs, as Close gives one of the most
stirring, touching performances of the
year. She says very little, and is always
carefully mannered.
Her secret however, doesn’t stay
buried forever. A painter, Hubert Page
(McTeer), forced to share Albert’s bed
due to a shortage of rooms, discovers
Nobbs’ secret. It turns out Page is go-
ing through something similar of “her”
own, and Nobbs is further intrigued
when Page is revealed to be happily
married, to a woman. Is it still possible
to have a normal life, a person to fully
love and embrace you even if you hap-
pen to be a woman who dresses up as a
man? Seeing Page, her wife, and their
home give Nobbs hope, and she turns
her eyes to the young, beautiful Helen
(Wasikowska), working as a maid in
the hotel.
Complications arise though, as there
is a young man also interested in Hel-
en. Joe (Johnson), a boy hired off the
street for knowing how to operate the
hotel boiler, actually welcomes the fact
that Nobbs shows keen interest in his
girlfriend. He wants Helen to hang out
with Nobbs, and to squeeze out many
material gifts. Helen initially goes for
that idea, but as time goes by she re-
alises that Nobbs is a strange yet nice
man with manners, qualities her current
passionate younger lover seems to lack.
Wasikowska is charming as the clue-
less young girl who may not be easy to
like at first, but does eventually win you
over with her naïve warmth. Johnson
on the other hand, plays his nasty piece
of work with a hint of ambition, anger
and jealousy, a mixture that results in
intense confrontations and outbursts,
something that Johnson handles well.
Despite being a film revolving around
one woman’s unique life, the director
takes his time to use his supporting
characters rather than relying on one
outstanding performance of a seasoned
performer. McTeer provides a reliable
shoulder of support for our heroine
who often struggles to find her place in
the world, Brendan Gleeson, whenever
he sporadically shows up, is a funny,
boozy doctor, a regular guest at the
hotel, and Pauline Collins, the money-
and-opportunity-grabbing lonely owner
of the hotel, Mrs. Baker, manages to
convey the uptight, strict boss with both
her wicked ways as well as with the oc-
casional wit.
The problem with Albert Nobbs is
that even in the most crucial, emotional
moments, everything feels too slight
and oddly doesn’t explore the character
of Albert further. A brief background
story is not sufficient enough to truly
enrich an intriguing, yet highly un-
usual narrative such as this one. Most
frustrating of all, is the hastily written
ending. Most of the running time is
spent on relatively tame events, that
the film never builds a strong momen-
tum. It’s sloppy, and leaves the film’s
story hanging. Albert Nobbs is a clear
showcase for the versatile actress that
Close is and has been for years, and
yes, she does no doubt give an award-
worthy performance that will be one of
the highlights of her distinguished ca-
reer, but the muted atmosphere cannot
quite keep up with the actress’ intense
performance.
I don’t boil bunnies anymore! You must believe me!! I’m not crazy!!!

