TELEVISION
FELIX Friday 16 MarCH 2012 37
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Television Editors: George Barnett
James Simpson
Abrams vs. Alcatraz
C
reated by J.J. Abrams, the mas-
termind behind Lost and Fringe,
Alcatraz follows a special unit
within the FBI dedicated to inves-
tigating the disappearance of the
prisoners and guards from the infamous prison
in 1963. The year is 2012 and the 63s, as they
are commonly referred to, have started showing
up the same age as when they disappeared and
with no memory of how they vanished, or where
they’ve been for the past 50 years.
Heading the investigation is Emerson Hauser,
an FBI agent who also served as an officer on
Alcatraz in the 60s. Played by Sam Neill (Juras-
sic Park), his main goal is to capture the con-
victs as they arrive in the present day, while also
trying to figure out how they disappeared in the
first place. His character is generally quite cyni-
cal with many hidden agendas. He is aided in his
quest by Rebecca Madsen, an SFPD homicide
detective with familial ties to Alcatraz. Jorge
Garcia (Lost) rounds off the main cast as Dr Di-
ego ‘Doc’ Soto, an author of books about Alca-
traz and comic book shop owner. His in-depth
knowledge of all of the inmates has proven in-
valuable and his character provides some much
needed light-heartedness.
Voted as one of eight Most Exciting New Se-
ries, the show first aired in the US in January
and has followed an ‘inmate-of-the-week’ for-
mat. Each episode therefore follows the team as
they chase down the newest prisoner to return
from who–knows–where, as well as showing
flash-backs from said prisoner’s time at Al-
catraz. The warden, deputy warden and head
doctor at Alcatraz are crucial characters in
these flashbacks, showing us that many of the
guards were every bit as cruel and criminally
inclined as the convicts themselves.
After 10 episodes, we are still no closer to
discovering the secrets behind Alcatraz. The
plot is easy to follow, but each new episode
brings up more questions. Background
information about the main characters
themselves is also quite scarce, but then
it is still early days. So far it is clear
that they all have a few skeletons in their
closets. The disap-
pearance seems scientific in its nature, with nu-
merous references made to the works of Jules
Verne. In typical J.J. fashion questions of moral-
ity and religion are investigated, whilst psychol-
ogy and brain-washing also play an important
role. Why and how did over 300 people disap-
pear all at once? Where have they been and why
do they have no memory of how it happened, yet
know to look for certain objects hidden in vari-
ous locations in San Francisco?
Being a great fan of Lost and Fringe, I was ex-
cited to hear about Abrams’ new project. The
element of time-travel was not at all sur-
prising, but the idea behind it was some-
thing unique. The series is
definitely entertaining
to watch, but it lacks the
punch and fast pace
of his other
shows. I guess the main issue I have thus far is
how unconcerned everyone is with the fact that
people are popping up from the past. After an
initial ‘is everyone else’s head exploding right
about now’moment in the first episode, Rebecca
and Doc just take it at face value and stop ques-
tioning it. Even the inmates themselves don’t
seem too concerned about suddenly finding
themselves in the future and adapt to the pres-
ent very quickly. I also question the inmates’on-
going compulsion to carry out the crimes they
were originally caught and imprisoned for.
Despite these drawbacks, I still think Alcatraz
is an enjoyable watch and I look forward to new
episodes every week. It has all of the elements
at hand to make it a great show. With only three
more episodes until the end of the season,
I’m sure the writers will keep us
Lucia Podhorska breaks out a review of Alcatraz
Pick of the week
Facebook’s actually quite bor-
ing isn’t it? Well here’s some-
thing to satisfy your procasti-
natory needs
March 16 | 2030 | Sky Sports F1
The F1 Show
Georgie Thompson and Ted Kravitz update us
on the latest Formula 1 news, focussing on
the upcoming Australian Grand Prix in Mel-
bourne.
March 17 | 2235 | BBC4
Top of the Pops: 1977
Get your groove on as David Jensen presents
an edition from March 10. Featuring the UK’s
1977 Eurovision entry: Rock Bottom by Lyn-
sey de Paul and Mike Moran (they didn’t win,
but amazingly were runners-up.)
March 18 | 1400 | BBC1
Formula 1: Australian Grand Prix
For those of you without Sky; catch the open-
ing race of the new season with Jake Hum-
phrey.
March 20 | 2230 | BBC3
Pramface
Heartwarming comedy about 16 year old Ja-
mie who gets 18 year old Laura pregnant.
Whoops.
guessing at the ending.
Alcatraz started airing on
Watch this week. Catch
it at 9pm on Tuesdays.
“Why and how did over
300 people disappear all
at once?”
Bring back Murray Walker

