Laurence Pope takes some time out to chat to Michael Cook, a PhD student designing
“As A.I. becomes more
sophisticated and more
able to create, hopefully it
will only serve to highlight
what we value in human
creativity”
L
aurence: So, first question, for
someone who’s never heard of
Angelina, how would you best de-
scribe it?
Mike: Angelina is just a piece of soft-
ware, exactly like any other kind of application
on your computer. It needs a lot more resources
to run, and what it essentially does is I set a few
parameters, let it run, and it emails me when it’s
done to let me know when a new game has been
produced. Inside there there’s all kinds of artificial
intelligence going on to produce these games. It’s
really just your average bit of code running on the
PC.
L: What was it that prompted you to look into
A.I. and base your research on this sort of soft-
ware?
M: I’ve always played video games, and they’ve
always been an interest, but A.I. in particular be-
came of interest to me when I started computer
science at Imperial. There are a few streams you
can go down in computer science, but for me it
was always about the logic and making computers
do really unusual things. Video games are already
an exotic thing for a computer to do anyway, pro-
cedurally generated worlds, things like that.
L: I’ve read a couple of the articles that have
FELIX
Friday 16 march 2012
40
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
It’s not Crysis 2 quite yet I’ll admit... (An Angelina designed game)
Games by Angelina: Artificial
already been written, and I got the impression
Angelina was very much in silico Darwinism.
Would that be a fair assessment?
M: I often relate it back to natural evolution, be-
cause I think it’s a good touch point for people to
understand computational evolution, and there are
a lot of similarities. It’s probably best to talk about
Angelina’s evolutionary processes.
Computational evolution is a very common A.I.
technique used all over the place; medicine, en-
gineering, pharmacology, all kinds of stuffs. It’s
been used in games before, so it’s not something
new in that sense, we’re just using it in a different
way. In essence it’s very much like evolution in
the real world. It’s not really directed, there’s no
intentionality, at each step it’s not clear where the
program’s moving. It’s only when you step back
and look at Angelina as a whole that you can un-
derstand where it was headed. It’s just like evolu-
tion in the real world – it doesn’t have a real goal,
it’s just a process that happens naturally.
It has helped to think of this as an evolution-
ary process, because normally evolutionary pro-
cesses in computing are just one thing, one spe-
cies of animal, but in Angelina we have multiple
species evolving alongside one another, and they
exert pressures on one another, just as two species
would in a natural environment. So if a level de-
sign starts to tend toward a particular feature the
power ups will have to alter their design to com-
pensate for that.
L: At the moment Angelina can’t add in graph-
ics or audio on its own. What’s the raw product
look like before you spruce it up?
M: It looks pretty much like the Santa games up
on my website now. It’s the stock stuff sitting there
just waiting to be used. I often put in a lot of the vi-
sual touches later, especially if I’m making a game
for something like the New Scientist game. If you
go back further, before the platform games, you
can see what they were really like, when they were
simplistic, little more than basic coloured shapes
on the screen.
In a way I feel that some of the coverage I’ve
gotten has been a little cheap; the screenshots
make it look very clever, but I did all that art. The
good thing is my PhD supervisor, Simon Colton,
does lots of work in A.I. generated art, so we’re
going to look into ways to get Angelina to be a bit
artier in future all by itself.
L: So it’s likely that Angelina will soon be able
to add in simple graphics all by itself, but what
about higher resolution stuff? For example, do
you think Angelina will be able to create a game
as visually rich as Team Fortress 2?
M: Yes, eventually. The idea of computational
creativity is quite interesting, because researchers
like ourselves are struggling with defining a grade
of creativity. For instance, writing the Felix article
you’re going to write requires a certain level of
creativity, but reading it also requires a certain lev-
el as well in order to visualise some of the things
you’re discussing. Now you could argue that
they’re two quite different levels of creativity, one
being much higher than the other. Currently, some
aspects of Angelina feel creative, but we don’t re-
ally consider the system very creative at all.
You could go some steps up and have Angelina
design artwork based on existing things in the
world. It could say look on Google images of im-
ages of people or soldiers and restyle them in a
particular painting style. That would be one form
of creativity.
To generate the kind of high-quality art style
seen in TF2 from scratch would take a very long
time, but definitely Angelina will start to make
strides towards that eventually. 8-bit is just a con-
venient start point.
L: You’ve said before you believe Angelina has
benefit for game designers, but do you think it
has any use outside of that?
M: It’d be better to say research like Angelina,
as I’m obviously not the only person looking into
this sort of A.I. There’s a bunch of different ways I
hope it’ll affect the games industry.
One of the ways as you say is that it’ll give de-
signers more powerful design tools to work with.
Secondly, from the opposite end of things, which
is that people like you or I will be better able to
design games, because tools like Angelina will be
able to boost people up, just like Photoshop has
boosted my photoediting skills in general. It’ll help
us make more intelligent and interesting games for
ourselves, which are still designed but are ampli-
fied by the effects of intelligent tools.
Thirdly I hope that’ll lead to really interesting
games, and that’s a benefit for everyone. In com-
putational creativity we often think about how A.I.
can emulate existing human creativity. We talk
about how A.I. artists could paint paintings that
humans might, or design games that designers
An exclusive look at Michael’s next line of Angelina-based research – the building of
puzzle games with a series of levels and increasing difficulty

