an A.I. software program, Angelina, that can create games all by itself
Intelligence and game design
FELIX
GAMES
Friday 16 march 2012
might. A.I. might offer another form of creativity,
games which humans could never make them-
selves, games that can redesign themselves live to
make new challenges, artworks that are composed
of thousand and thousands of tweets, tasks that are
so immense only a computational program could
synthesise them. It’s interesting because it could
lead to new genres of games or new mechanics
that we might never have thought of.
Hopefully, as researchers get closer to the public
a lot of our research will get released for free, and
a lot of our games are released for free. Certainly
I hope to release everything about Angelina for
free, not just the games but also in time the code
behind it as well. That has huge knock-on effects
for everyone.
“Photoshop didn’t ruin fine
artists, and I don’t think
these tools will either”
L: Let’s have a think about the app market for
a moment. Do you think that if a designer could
press a button and have a game pumped out
with no work that the market would be flooded,
especially if you plan to release the code for
free?
M: Some people have claimed I’ve been quite na-
ïve for saying that I don’t believe it’ll have that
effect on the app market, and I think there is an
element of naïvity in there somewhere. It’s im-
possible to think that these won’t have an effect
on people, because in a sense the app market has
already experienced these problems before, in
that it’s already quite easy to make a basic app. If
we make that process even easier we’d certainly
see flushes of very simple apps. One of the next
projects I’m working on with Angelina is puzzle
games, and I’ve already realised that the kind of
complexity we could potentially create, those apps
are already being sold now for £0.69. It would not
be beyond the stretches of imagination to have An-
gelina do that.
If that were to happen, I hope that what we
would see is that the minimum level of what we
consider interesting would rise. It would no longer
be interesting to us to see the next Zynga game,
and that could be a great thing. It might be that in
the future Angleina would be on everyone’s com-
puter, and they could push a button and let it make
a game for them, so that they don’t have to spend
£0.69 on another.
Then, people would take an interest in games that
are truly creative and truly inventive. Of course,
the question is what would happen when Angelina
pushes up to that level, if it ever could. My feel-
ing is that as A.I. becomes more sophisticated and
more able to create, hopefully it will only serve to
highlight what we value in human creativity.
For me people like Edmund McMillen, who
made Super Meat Boy and The Binding of Isaac,
and Derek Yu, who made Aquaria and Spelunky,
Michael has plans to use a new library called APACE to allow Angelina to create point-
and-click adventures
those people communicate something very unique
through their games, something very deep about
who they are. I’ll always be interested in buying
their games, and I don’t think an A.I. could ever
replicate that connection between me and the de-
signer.
Games like Battlefield 4 are going to be highly
mechanical games. There’s going to be a lot of
equations that need balancing, a lot of weapons,
generic vehicles and levels that will need to be bal-
anced and created. Those games might find them-
selves being impacted by Angelina.
If you look at the indie market and the huge
swathes of inventiveness, uniqueness and human
connection between the games and the people that
make them, they will be, if anything, the very
last games to go if they should ever be affected
by these tools. This is where the real art shines
through. My supervisor always says “Photoshop
didn’t ruin fine artists,” and I don’t think these
tools will either. What they might do is flush out
people who are getting away with churning out the
same app every week. Maybe those people will
see their incomes affected, but hopefully it’ll en-
courage them to go after projects they really love,
rather than just chasing the current trend. Maybe
it’ll be a bad thing for the industry; I really hope
it isn’t!
L: For me certainly, I’ve never been a fan of
those mechanical shooters that come on year on
year, so I do think it’ll have a positive effect.
M: Yes, and I think that eventually, whether or
not these tools are released, if they become useful
private companies like Activision will build their
own, and they’ll have a lot of money to spend on
R&D. It may be that their tools will far surpass
whatever I could ever produce to make the next
Battlefield, in which case you’ll see these games
coming out, because they’ll always have the edge
with technology.
Of course, not all creative or inventive game de-
velopers are indie; Valve’s games have a terrific
personality, and those things will always be here.
You can’t match them with A.I. You can’t replace
that human element. Humans have slaved over
their work and it shows; Angelina can’t emulate
that, and nor would we want her to. That’s another
question. There are a lot of things the industry are
Companies like Activision will probably have
to up their game in one way or another
not interested in.
L: There was a comment made by Mark Nelson,
claiming that Angelina should be more trans-
parent, and should allow designers to change
what they want. Do you believe what he says?
M: Mark is a really awesome researcher, and a lot
Super Meat Boy — a highlight of human
creativity in the gaming industry
of his papers spurred on the research that I did. I
kind of brought that quote on myself. When I talk
about Angelina in interviews like this I often talk
about it being used in conjunction with designers
and things like that. Really, it’s the research around
Angelina that will go on to be used. Angelina itself
in an autonomous designer, it can’t be used in con-
junction with human designers.
Mark on the other hand has worked on build-
ing tools that collaborate with a human. For those
tools it’s very important that humans can express
what they’re looking for. With Angelina it requires
a lot of tinkering with the code, when I run it it
doesn’t ask me what I think. There are a lot of
great tools like Tanagra, a level design tool. You
start to make a 2D level for a game like Mario, and
as you make the level Tanagra watches and tries
to work out what kind of level you’re after, and it
starts to fill in the level ahead of you. You can tell
it to change things, but it tries to collaborate and
Interested in more?
If you’re interested in finding out more
about Michael’s research or fancy trying
out one of Angelina’s games check out
his website and blog:
http://www.gamesbyangelina.org/
“A.I. might offer another
form of creativity, games
which humans could never
make themselves”
design alongside you.
My aim with Angelina will always be to make a
designer that works on its own and designs games
without me.
Tools need more transparency, but Angelina
doesn’t. Hopefully her research will spurn on the
development of more development tools however.
L: So the final question I had – Angelina, where
did the name come from?
M: In computing, there seems to be a tendency for
really terrible acronyms. There are many dreadful
examples! Angelina’s acronym is A Novel Game-
Evolving Labrat. It’s tail-recursive, which I find
hilarious, but I’m not sure it’s at all funny outside
of computer science departments – or even within
them!
L: Thank you very much for your time. Good
luck with your research!
M: Cheers!
41

