•A special offer for I
Imperial students
from D
Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (D
DSA)
Accredited I
Instructor
•Mock Test E
Examiner
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
“Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test.
He is always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London
and his knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons
more than worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer
cheaper lessons to Imperial students and with the backing of other students
I am more than happy to support him”
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
5 Driving Lessons
for £95
FEATURE
FELIX Friday 16 MARCH 2012 5
not everybody with an eating disorder
started out with negative body image.
N: Are there any social groups you
come across in your line of work?
P: There tends to be a lot of focus on
adolescents and on women – tradition-
ally body image has been seen as a
problem for women and young people
but increasingly it is recognised as an
issue for everyone. Increasingly we
are working with adult men and ado-
lescent boys. Consistently the research
shows that men also have body image
concerns. There is also research being
done with children as young as four
years of age and adults as old as 80
years of age. It is an issue across the
lifespan for everybody.
N: At Imperial we have a strong gen-
der imbalance – do you see this as an
issue and do you see it impacting on
body image?
P: In terms of it impacting on body im-
age I couldn’t really say. I don’t know
of any research that has looked at that
directly so it’s a bit of a leap to talk
about that in relation to body image.
N:At Imperial we live in a reasonably
high stress environment – is there a
relation between academic perfor-
mance pressure and body image?
P: There are studies that show people
who have a negative body image are
less likely to participate in class. There
was also a study that showed that stu-
dents with high body image concerns
[performed worse academically] than
students who didn’t.
N: The fashion industry is often
blamed for people’s obsession with
their bodies. Is this fair?
P: It’s fair in that the fashion industry
has a role to play – I don’t think it’s
fair when they are blamed exclusively.
I think there are a lot of industries that
benefit from reinforcing narrow beauty
ideals that contribute to body image
concerns. Certainly I would like to see
more diversity in the types of people
and appearances that they use and rep-
resent, and there’s a lot of research, in-
cluding some that I’ve done, that shows
that if advertisements use more diverse
and larger size models it has a positive
impact on people’s body image. I think
there’s a lot of room for improvement
but I think it’s important to focus on the
positives and we are starting to see ini-
tiatives from within the fashion indus-
try which are about promoting diversity
in appearance.
N: Do you know of any other cultures
where media and the fashion indus-
try don’t have the same impact?
P: No, not really. There is some re-
search that shows that with increasing
exposure to westernised media there is
an increase in body image concerns and
disordered eating behaviours. There
was a study that looked at body image
and disordered eating among adoles-
cent girls in Fiji before and after televi-
sion was introduced and they found a
significant increase afterwards. I don’t
know that we would be able to make
any significant comparisons with any
cultures where the media isn’t an is-
sue. The research focuses on western
cultures and the impact of westernised
media.
N: Is there an ideal body size?
P: I’d say there is an ideal body size
that is unique for every individual and
that is probably what I would call the
‘healthy ideal’, when they are at a body
size that is comfortable to them and
when they have a healthy relationship
with food and exercise.
N: You’ve mentioned men a couple of
times – we have a lot of men at Impe-
rial. I wonder how body image issues
in men compare to body image issues
in women.
P: It’s difficult to make direct compari-
sons – most of the research focuses on
one or the other, but there is an increas-
ing amount of focus on men. We did
some research in collaboration with
the SUCCEED foundation that was fo-
cused on body image in adult men in
the UK. What we found is that men are
concerned with body image and that it
impacts on different areas in their lives.
It’s really hard to make clear compari-
sons with women, and it has tradition-
ally been seen as a women’s issue, but
the study that we did also looked at
how men talk about their appearance
with other men, and how often they do
talk about it, and 80% of men said they
regularly engage in conversations that
focus on appearance and reinforce their
own beauty ideas. The vast majority of
men said they wished they looked dif-
ferent to the way they did, with a heavy
focus on muscularity, hair and height.
N: What impact would you say men
can have on women’s body image and
is there anything men can look out
for and try to do differently?
P: It’s not so much what men can do
to women – it’s what everyone can do.
One thing that everybody can do is
not engage in ‘body-talk’ or ‘fat-talk’,
which is commenting on another per-
son’s body weight and shape whether
that’s complimentary or in a negative
way because what that subtly does is
reinforce that how we all look is impor-
tant, and people value that.
If you have any questions or would
like to get involved with the SUC-
CEED programme but can’t come
to the talk on Monday 19 March at
12:30-13:30 in SAFB 121 then get
in touch with dpwelfare@imperial.
ac.uk

