FELIX
Friday 16 march 2012
42
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
Cave Johnson details his plans for first contact
Space Invaders? Not on
MY watch!
“We’re looking for pre-
probing test subjects. If
interested, talk to your
college’s test associate
and he’ll fill you in. As
will everyone in the lab”
H
ello Earth-dwellers, Cave John-
son here.
Firstly, I’ve got a note from
the lab boys over in biochem,
and they’ve told me to tell you
not to eat any of the ‘Election Special’ range
from the JCR. There’s something scribbled
here about ‘politicitis’, and severe social repul-
siveness. This news probably comes too late
for most of you, but you can all take comfort
in the fact that you’re furthering the advance of
science by at least a couple of minutes.
For the last question of term, Harry asks,
“If we meet friendly extraterrestrial life, how
should we abuse (sorry, harness) its power? If
it’s evil, how should we combat it?”
Firstly, we can be pretty sure that any
aliens who turn up at our doorstep are going
to be more technologically advanced than us.
They’re likely to have ray-guns, teleporters
and some fancy anti-lemon technology. If they
come in peace, then it’s our duty as citizens
of the United States to keep all of the science
and advancements to ourselves, and make
damn sure it doesn’t fall into the wrong hands.
Like communists. Or Black Mesa. I’m not sure
which is worse.
We know from all the stories that it’s not a
proper abduction unless there’s some kind of
probing. That’s science fact. Our resident xe-
nobiologist says that this is because it’s the
way that most aliens greet each other, and as
such we want to give our visitors the warmest
welcome possible. We don’t want to risk dam-
aging the alien bodies through such invasive
procedures, so the boys down in biology want
to get some pre-probing done to minimalize
potential loss when the time comes. Coinci-
dentally, we’ve got a great testing opportunity
for lazy students – talk to your college’s test
associate and he’ll fill you in. As will every-
one in the lab. Once we’ve learned everything
about their technology, we’ll just be left with
the little green men themselves. The aliens –
not the leprechauns – for the UCL-calibre stu-
dents among you. Keep up.
The Journal of Astroxenochembiophilo-
sophical Geological Pseudo-Sciency Materials
B recently published an article that listed the
ways that aliens may be biologically different
from us. It’s a couple of hundred pages long,
but it’s a good read, if your college has access
to it. It even has pictures. They’ve concluded
that the most likely form of any alien invad-
ers is not that of the classic green-skinned
and beady-eyed variety, but rather short, furry
creatures that embody an image of cuteness.
That’s how they get close to their prey. For
the conspiracy theorists among you, I would
suggest printing out a copy to keep on you at
all times. Don’t worry about the amount of pa-
per required though – there are too many trees
anyway. And they’re all watching you. As a
special testing offer to you paranoid students,
we’ve created a unique testing experience.
Monsters TD
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/591382
Crumpled is not a tower defense, but trying to
classify it is difficult. It’s part puzzle, part parkour,
part artsy, part pure imagination. You control both
a wall-climbing man and his fellow’ blob’ of plas-
tic, which can morph into shapes and take on new
properties.
Combined, the two must get through the levels,
activating switches, blocking damage and pro-
viding platforms for one another amongst other
things. It’s amazingly creative, and certainly worth
your time.
Monsters TD is a tower defense game. Pretty stan-
dard, right? Perhaps, but Monsters TD spins it out
very well.
A strange group of monsters are trying to reach a
portal, and your only defense is a weird selection of
freaky steampunk towers. It starts off pretty basic,
but as you advance towers can be upgraded and
become more specialised in their function. Like all
tower defense games Monsters TD requires a little
trial and error and a fair bit of thinking to position
your defenses appropriately. Give it a shot.
Free Web Games
Sorry, nothing remotely funny to say up here this
week. I’m suffering from the ‘flu, and I don’t see
why anyone else should be happy. Check out these
two totally mediocre web games that you can play
right now in your web browser. In order to suffer
thorough these you’re going to need the Adobe
Flash Player plug-in, which can be installed from
http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/
Crumpled
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/590513
Get the probulators ready...
Pictured: one puppy, one disguised alien. One will bark and yap, the other will transform
and vomit boiling space acid down your throat. Choose wisely
We’re looking for volunteers to sit in a room
with a tin foil hat on. We’ll then bombard you
with all the types of radiation we can think off,
and see what happens. Don’t worry about the
cancer risk, as we’ll just boil the tumours right
out of you later. With more radiation.
Back to business then. If they’re here for
global domination, then I expect that the hu-
man populace won’t have much of a chance.
The governments will bow down, and you’ll
all become slaves to your new despotic over-
lords. Do not despair, faithful test subjects.
Aperture has a set of guidelines for this exact
situation. I don’t know what they are, but I ex-
pect it has something to do with the giant lasers
that the boys have been making over in weap-
ons testing. There’s supposedly enough energy
from one blast that we can go directly from
‘cow’ to ‘steak’ in half a second. There is so
much abandoned weapons technology down
here that we should start hosting conventions.
On the upside, Aperture has enough nuclear
material to make sure that if I can’t have the
Earth, neither can they.
Just as a reminder, I’m going away for a few
weeks. This is in no way related to the missing
zoo animals, or my recent attempt at creating
Cave’s Ark. This is just a holiday. A simple un-
derwater holiday. With slugs.
I’ll leave you in Caroline’s safe hands whilst
I’m gone.
Get probed.
For science.
“In the worst case
scenario, Aperture has
enough nuclear material
to make sure that if I
can’t have Earth, neither
can they”

