FOOD
FELIX
Friday 16 MARCH 2012
44
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
A veggie and a meaty
A Good Meaty Meal After Our Vegan Month: Roast
Lamb Leg with Apricot and Thyme
Serves 8
Leg of lamb on the bone
6 dried apricots slices into
thirds
Sprigs of fresh thyme
Olive oil
1tbsp apricot jam
Gravy:
4tbsp flour
570ml stock
1tbsp white wine
½ tsp soy sauce
Pinch of dried thyme
2tbsp apricot jam
Preheat oven 220°C/425°C. Calculate baking time:
allow 20mins per 420g, plus an extra 20mins. Stab
the meat with a small knife, pushing the apricot piec-
es and thyme into the holes. Coat in oil, sprinkle with
salt and bake. Turn the oven down to 180°C/350°C
after 20mins. 30mins before the end of cooking time
coat lamb in apricot jam (when cooked leave the meat
to rest covered in foil for 15mins before carving). Use
the juices from the roasting tray to make the gravy:
Spoon off the fat from the surface, then use a scraper
and a little stock to dissolve away some of the meat
stuck to the tray. Add flour to the saucepan, pouring
in enough juices to make a roux. Add the rest of the
juices and stock, season and whisk. Add the white
wine, soy sauce and thyme, bringing it to the boil and
simmer for a few minutes, stirring occasionally. Add
the apricot jam and taste before serving. Serve with
roast potatoes and green vegetables.
Veganism is looming...
by Clare Cheng and Hannah Cox
With our final week of veganism looming,
it’s time for us to look back at what we’ve
achieved so far as well as look forward to
our unrestricted diets! We’ve enjoyed being
vegan more than we thought we would. Our
preconception of the vegan lifestyle was that
of tasteless and unfulfilling meals that satis-
fied your body, but not your mind. So it was
a surprise when we found that actually some
parts of being vegan were pretty good.
We’ve both enjoyed soya milk, albeit dif-
ferent forms. Clare enjoyed having her Al-
pro Soy sweetened soya milk in everything,
from tea to cereal, and is pretty much plan-
ning on sticking with it after we finish. In
contrast Hannah enjoyed unsweetened soya
milk in tea, but couldn’t face it at all on its
own or in cereal. So while she conquered
her biggest potential challenge when taking
on veganism (maintaining her daily tea-fix),
she’s excited at the prospect of drinking a
nice cold cup of creamy fully dairy milk.
After all you can’t beat the real McCoy.
Additionally there’ve been some pretty
good meals! A particular favourite was
a mixed vegetable and barley soup – re-
ally wholesome and warm for the winter
months. If you want the recipe, comment on
the article online and we’ll send it to you.
Veganism is often portrayed as one of the
healthiest lifestyles you can follow, with min-
imum saturated fat and a lack of processed
foods, just plenty of vegetables, pulses and
grains. With this in mind we expected to feel
healthier and to shed a few pounds. The true
reality of the situation is that yes, we have
lost a few pounds, which is great! However
we don’t feel it’s a surefire thing that you
would, because we often found ourselves in
the situation of compensating our meat for
carbs. Perhaps it’s only because we made a
conscious effort to use this month to (dare we
say it) diet a little that we managed to avoid
this trap; there is such a thing as a fat vegan!
It’s incredibly difficult to maintain a bal-
anced diet, particularly with regards to pro-
tein. After all there’s so many beans you
can eat before it’s antisocial. We have been
feeling tired constantly and concentra-
tion during lectures has been more difficult
than usual. A good chocolate bar is what
we would normally need to keep ourselves
going; that endorphin and sugar rush that
pushes you through your afternoon sched-
ule. We did find a good alternative in Nakd
bars. Clare would really recommend the
Chocolate Orange flavour and would con-
tinue to eat them occasionally after finishing
veganism. Hannah on the other hand pre-
ferred the Banana Bread and the Apple Pie
flavours. They tasted so much like the real
thing, an opinion with which Clare concurs.
Having said that, they weren’t the real thing
and often made you miss them even more.
So now we’re coming to the end we’re
looking ahead to that fateful hour when milk,
steak, sushi and a boiled egg will be able
to pass our lips again. As you might imag-
ine, a little like a final meal on death row,
we’ve been giving quite a lot of thought to
what we’re going to eat first. It’s a difficult
decision, which could lead to dairy-meat-
filled binge, resulting in hospitalization.
Hannah is definitely looking forward to her
first mug of cow-milk tea – she’ll have the
water boiled ready for the stroke of midnight!
The following day she’s going to feast on a
juicy steak with béarnaise sauce and Hes-
ton’s brilliant triple cooked chips (she’s lit-
erally salivating as we write). Clare shall be
having herself a huge Chinese takeaway, no
scrimping on the roast duck pancakes. Per-
haps she may even top it off with some sushi
at the end… she’s pretty desperate right now.
We’ve realized that veganism isn’t the
end of the world for food lovers. It makes
everyday life that little more difficult when
you walk down the aisles of delicious Eas-
ter Eggs or pass a good ol’ burger bar with
that smell of meaty goodness. It’s virtually
impossible to eat out at most restaurants;
a handy tuppa wear box of humus and cru-
dités must accompany you at all times.
For us this is definitely a one off. Our love
of food conquers our love of animals and
the environment – sorry tree huggers. How-
ever as mentioned previously there are lots of
things we’ve enjoyed about being vegan, and
will carry on in the future. In particular what
we will try to continue with is the principle of
having a vegetable based diet with a steak on
top of course. Previously to undertaking this
challenge, the balance of our plate was defi-
nitely in favour of a nice piece of meat or fish.
Perhaps this is one of the reasons why obesity
rates world wide are so high as people have
lost sight of what a truly balanced diet is. Af-
ter finishing our vegan month we’re definitely
going to make more informed food choices.
To conclude, veganism has been an eye
opening experience; not a life choice that’s for
us, but very informative and something we’ll
never forget. Thank you for reading and please
remember this was all for charity, so please
give generously at uk.virginmoneygiving.
com/team/goingvegan We’ve earned it!
As you all know we’ve been doing all of
this for the Multiple Sclerosis Trust. For
those of you who don’t know MS is a neu-
rodegenerative disease, where over time
the neurons of the nervous system lose
their myelin and eventually die altogether.
There’s no cure and it mainly affects peo-
ple around our age (20s-30s). Many of
you will know somebody in your lifetime
who is struck down by this disease.
Hopefully however with support from
the MS Trust that person will get the best
care possible. They raise awareness of
the disease, provide advice to patients
and families of suffers, as well as fund
crucial research to improve therapies
and perhaps one day find the cure. It is
essential for the continuation of the trust
that they get support from the likes of
you and I.
So far we’ve raised close to £600
thanks to people’s generous support.
However we’re still hoping to raise more
by doing a marathon bag-packing ses-
sion, as well as going around campus on
Monday 19 March with Hummingbird cup-
cakes. So get your wallets at the ready
for some delicious cupcakes (which you
can well and truly rub in our vegan faces).
The MS Trust and us still need your
help to raise lots of money so if you feel
you’ve got a pound to spare please give.
Fundraising Progress
Black Bean, Courgette, & Olive Tacos served with
Garlic-Lemon Yogurt – makes 8 tacos
1tsp olive oil
1 courgette, diced small
2 jalapenos, seeded & sliced thinly
¼ tsp salt
2 cloves garlic, minced
1/3 cup pitted kalamata olives, chopped
½ tsp ground cumin
½ tsp ground coriander
1 6-ounce can salsa verde
1 16pound can black beans, brained and rinsed
½ cup finely chopped spring onions
8 6inch corn tortillas
1 cup unsweetened plain soy yogurt
2-3 cloves garlic
Zest of half a lemon
Juice of 1 lemon
½ teaspoon light agave nectar
For the tacos: Sauté courgette, jalapeno with the
salt for 7mins (until the courgette is lightly browned
Add garlic, cumin, coriander, and sauté for 2mins.
Add salsa verde, olives, and black beans. Cook for
5mins. For the garlic-lemon yogurt: Grate the garlic
and lemon zest into the yogurt. Then squeeze in
the lemon juice and add the agave. Mix well with a
fork and season to taste. Layer bean mix, yogurt,
and spring onions in the tacos for a tasty vegan
meal.
uk.virginmoneygiving.com/team/goingvegan
Looking back on a vegan experience
Clare Cheng
Hannah Cox
“And we’re back in the game!”
Delicious Magazine

