BOOKS
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
FELIX Friday 16 march 2012 45
Jesus Christ as you’ve never seen him before
God’s Coming – Look Busy
“GOD’S COMING! – LOOK BUSY!”
“Shit. Think He’s is gonna be pissed?”
And so begins John Niven’s fourth
novel, The Second Coming. Niven in-
troduces us into his world as God re-
turns from his one week vacation – a
week in Heaven corresponding to sev-
eral hundred years on Earth. God, who
left for his vacation at around the time of
the Renaissance, returns to find his lov-
ingly created planet scarred by “Aus-
chwitz, Buchenwald, Belsen, Guan-
tanamo, Belfast, Cambodia, Vietnam,
Flanders, Ypres, Nagasaki, Hiroshima,
Rwanda, Bosnia……ethnic cleansing,
capitalism, communism...nuclear de-
terrence and mutually assured destruc-
tion…Fatwa and Jihad….gays being
hanged…the Taliban…the burqa and
the hijab…Kim Kardashian…defores-
tisation, globalisation, collateral dam-
age, brand awareness, marketing, prod-
uct placement and Republicans”.
However, this is no ‘normal’ God.
As Niven gleefully tells us, this is a
God that “loves fags”, “loves spades”
and has his “shirt sleeves rolled up”
to tackle the big problems of our age
(like a celestial David Cameron). This
is a God that conference calls his fel-
low religious entities (complete with
a potty mouthed Muhammad) and has
dinner with Satan – the two have a
friendly competition going about who
can get the most admittances into their
respective domains, and a God that ac-
cidentally starts the big bang because of
a casual “morning toke” gone awry. So
far, so deliberately controversial.
Niven does not stop there. When God
is meeting Satan for dinner, we are
greeted with a parade of celebrity and
political hate figures meeting numer-
ous grisly ends: you have Reagan crap-
ping himself to death and the recently
deceased Jesse Helms. Helms was, be-
fore his death, a five term Republican
senator for North Carolina, who was
famous for opposing civil rights, dis-
ability rights, any bill that he suspected
of hiding vaguely feminist tendencies,
gay rights (he once famously called
one of his many political opponents a
“militant-activist-mean lesbian”), affir-
mative action, contemporary art that he
considered to be sexually inappropriate,
and (of course) abortion. Helms meets
his sticky ending by the hands of Satan,
whom “slashes Helms throat” caus-
ing him to “topple over in a spray of
blood”, after Helms had just admitted
his love for “COCKS! GIANT BLACK
FUCKING COCKS!” After witnessing
the roaring trade Satan is achieving,
God decides to send the “little bastard”,
or Jesus, back down to his earthly home
to clean up our collective moral debris.
Jesus is reborn as a struggling front
man of an indie group, his fellow band
members being a wholly ‘unique’
blend of vapid, two dimensional char-
acters. In a bid to spread his new com-
mandment of “Be Nice” to the masses,
Jesus enters American Popstar – a
reality show that searches for the next
big thing. And of course it is headed by
Steven Stelfox, Niven’s deliberately
unsubtle recreation of Simon Cowell.
It is within these segments of the
novel – the ones that deal directly
with the music industry – that gives
the novel its only redeeming feature.
It is hard not to be swept along with
the genuine enthusiasm the author has
for the concept of Jesus playing ‘Born
to Run’ on the final of American Pop-
star. However, for some reason, Niven
suffocates these moments of agile and
authentic humour with clunking pieces
of synthesised angst about just about
everything. And this is what proves
terminal for the novel.
As you may have noticed from the
above extracts, this is a book that
doggedly chases controversy. Henry
Sutton, a journalist for the Daily Mir-
ror, said that “only the truly ignorant
will take offence” to Niven’s novel. I
would agree with that statement – this
book is not offensive. However, the
book is incorrect. Not politically in-
correct but just completely incorrect.
Niven aims his tirade of artificial
moral disdain at almost every aspect
of organised religion. He does not
consider the fact that the characters
he chooses to represent organised re-
ligion are realistic. For example, the
Pastor in the novel is an obviously
homophobic, racist, misogynistic and
sexually repressed individual. Not
once does Niven reflect the debate that
is present inside the church regarding
topics such as gay marriage; instead,
he decides to depict the argument us-
ing only primary colours. He takes a
shot at the celebrity culture we live in,
yet does not decide to dissect the anat-
omy of such a culture. Niven also criti-
cises the burqa – but again chooses to
ignore the existence of the many wom-
No humans were harmed in the writing of this review
I have somewhat of a fondness for
amusing lists. They’re a quick read
and perfect whether you want to you
want to wind down or just procras-
tinate. I was therefore interested to
hear of Tastes like Human, the latest
book by ‘The Shark Guys’ – Noel
Boivin and Christopher Lombardo.
Having written for websites like
Cracked and The Huffington Post
the pair are no strangers to the for-
mat and show themselves to be more
than competent. The two-dozen or
so lists cover a wide range of topics.
With titles like ‘Top 10 Horniest Cult
Leaders of All Time’ and ‘Top 10 Ex-
ploding Animals’ the book is often
irreverent and outrageous, but rarely
truly offensive and always funny.
There were several points at which
I actually laughed out loud, such as
the advice to, when leaving an audi-
ence with the Queen, “never turn your
back on Her Majesty” but instead
to “walk backward with your arms
wind-milling behind you to avoid
other people or large potted plants”.
Apart from this, there really isn’t
John Niven’s religous satire fails to impress
“...he portrays all
of his arguments in
exceptionally sim-
plistic, Tabloid-esque
headlines with the
intention to shock...”
Joseph Spiking
much one can say. Tastes Like Human
is good for a collection of humorous
books but, as you might expect from
a book of this type, it certainly isn’t
anything life changing. That’s not
a criticism and I would still recom-
mend that you check it out. At 115
pages it is somewhat short but this
means you don’t tire of it and that
it can easily be finished by even the
busiest student or slowest reader. At
less than £2 for the ebook it’s cer-
tainly at least good value for money.
A look at Tastes like Human: the latest book of humorous lists by ‘The Shark Guys’
en who choose to wear the burqa for
their own personal reasons. In doing
so, Niven ignores the inherent beauty
of that decision – the kind of decision
that even the God Niven depicts would
agree with and thus misses the point
quite spectacularly. Thus, he portrays
all of his arguments in exceptionally
simplistic, Tabloid-esque headlines
with the intention to shock, polarise
and, childishly enough, probably to of-
fend. And it is this that proves to be the
worst part of a pretty distasteful book.
How can Niven credibly criticise or-
ganised religion, republicans etc. etc.
of making over simplistic, illogi-
cal, unrepresentative and essentially
bigoted arguments when he himself
makes over simplistic, illogical, un-
representative and essentially bigoted
arguments? To put it another way, I
am not criticising Niven for pointing
out the plank of wood in his brother’s
eye when he has dirt in his own – I am
criticising the fact that they’re brothers
in the first place.
Or to put it in a way Niven may un-
derstand, only buy this book if you
want to fork out £7.99 for a roll of toi-
let paper with only 376 sheets.
Maciej Matuszewski
“irreverent and outra-
geous [...] and al-
ways funny”

