This summer I will be part of a group
of five Imperial students cycling from
Paris to Dakar. Dakar is the capital
of Senegal, the most westerly point of
continental Africa and over 5,500km
from Paris. We will leave from Paris
after exams, nipping through the traf-
fic and cutting into the calmer inte-
rior of France. We will travel along
the Way of St. James, a network of
pilgrimage routes converging on the
Cathedral of Santiago de Compos-
tela in Galicia. We will depart from
the Way around the Pyrenees, long
before Galicia in the north west of
Spain. Through Spain we will aim for
Gibraltar, then taking the ferry across
the Straits to the port of Cueta in Mo-
rocco.
The ferry from Gibraltar marks a
significant point in our journey. We
leave behind Europe and all its sen-
sibilities for the unfamiliar African
leg of the trip. The route will mainly
follow the coast, offering a cooling
breeze from the Atlantic. In Morocco
we will pass through the chattering
bazaars and enjoy vistas of the Atlas
Mountains. Leaving Morocco we will
enter Western Sahara. Everything I
know about Western Sahara is from
Wikipedia. The first paragraph de-
tails the facts of it being a disputed
territory, one of the most sparsely
populated territories in the world and
mainly consisting of desert flatlands.
My only first-hand connection with
it is a friend who told me his friend
volunteered in a refugee camp there.
When I try to imagine the view I will
see from my bike for days travelling
through this country I can only see a
block of hot sand rising into a sky of
hot blue.
Western Sahara passes into Mauri-
tania. Entering near Nouadhibou, the
road becomes a desert track for 7 km
and is bound on both sides by a mine-
field. Sticking to the track it is safe
enough but it sometimes happens that
wild camels become victims of the
dispute within sight. We will continue
south, passing through gendarmerie
mobile checkpoints every 30-100 km
apart, the scenery becoming greener
as we pass out of the Sahara desert
towards our destination.
After two months on the road, rest-
ing for a day every five days or so,
we should reach Dakar. We will have
travelled through six countries and
two continents and all under our own
Daniel Hyde
Five Imperial students will take to the road this summer in an alternative road trip
TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 16 march 2012 47
Post-exam Paris to Dakar
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson
power, carrying all our gear. We will
have seen and experienced the change
in culture, geography and architec-
ture from Paris to sub-Saharan Africa
while cycling a humble bicycle. Fly-
ing home from Dakar on the plane,
with the bike in the cargo hold, will
be much easier, but not as enduringly
brilliant.
To keep up to date with our prog-
ress in the lead up to and undertak-
ing of the trip see our website www.
paristodakar.org and our Facebook
page www.facebook.com/paris2da-
kar. Expect to see some more articles
on our return!
Sure, it’s all smiles now, but there are camels to face

