Revisiting the past to protect our future
On Sunday, Imperial College KVN
Team “IMPACT” became the UK
League Champions, beating 17 other
teams from other universities and com-
bined team all over the UK for this title.
KVN is a Russian version of Uni-
versity Challenge within standup and
sketch comedy. KVN (translates as
Club of Funny and Ready-witted)
has been running for over 50 years in
Russia, now spread all over the world
including Australia, Canada, USA, Is-
rael, Germany, and it started in the UK
in 2010. It has had enormous success,
and attracted teams from all over the
world for the Inter-continental Festi-
val of KVN last year and also a set of
world-famous judges such as a Russian
football player Roman Pavlyuchenko,
previous world champions of KVN and
famous Russian artists and producers.
Our team was mainly made up of
masters and undergraduate students –
our team captain Elena Yaklych, Na-
talia Yankova, Alex Bukharin, Oksana
Iamshanova, Anna Volokitin as well as
four PhD students – Artyom Romanov,
Alexey Denisov, Irina Tsymashenka,
and Nickolai Vysokov, as well as two
guys from outside of the university,
Egor Savvin (LSBF) and Igor Jevseev.
The team has performed brilliantly on
stage throughout and took the first place
in quarter-finals, then in semi-finals
round and won the finals! In the finals
we have withstood a fierce battle with
LSE, London Kazakh Society (who
took the second place), Bournemouth
University, and a joint team from Ox-
ford Brookes and City University.
We have presented the best jokes,
funniest and most original sketches
to over 800 people from the Russian
community living in London. It took
Students from Imperial Jewish Society travelled to Lithuania to explore the country’s Jewish heritage. JSoc
member Andrea Levy describes the experience of revisiting the past
Nickolai Vysokov
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
Russian standup and sketches impress to become United Kingdom’s top group
Imperial KVN team take comedy crown
I
mperial JSoc members
wrapped up to keep warm in
-25ºC temperatures during
their heritage trip to Lithu-
ania.
The action began when nineteen
valorous Imperial College Jewish
Society members and Rabbi Broder,
the London Student Chaplain, met at
London Gatwick airport to embark
on a surreal trip to Kovno, Lithu-
ania – the second largest Lithuanian
city after Vilna. It would be a trip
to a centre of European Jewry and
rabbinic learning in the 18th to 20th
Centuries. For many of us, it would
also be a trip of rediscovery of our
eastern European roots and of return
to the very place our ancestors once
fled from.
From around the 14th Century, the
Jewish community in Lithuania grew
considerably, probably as a result of
the fact that Vytautas the Great, rul-
er of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania
from 1392 to 1430, granted freedoms
to the Jews that were restricted else-
where. These freedoms included the
right to practice their faith and thus
to celebrate their religious holidays,
protection of synagogues and cem-
eteries, the right of unrestricted
mobility, trade, financial activities,
amongst others.
Hence, Jews became deeply root-
ed in Lithuania, developing a rich
heritage in the country, despite later
turmoil, including persecution and
expulsion in the late 15th Century.
Anti-Semitism picked up in the 20th
Century and culminated with the bru-
tal assassination of the vast majority
of the Lithuanian Jewish community
by the Nazis in the Second World
War. In fact, a significant number
of Jews in the UK have ancestors
amongst those who fled.
The expedition began when we
met our Kovno-born tour guide
Chaim, an expert of all things Jew-
ish in Lithuania, and set off for Vilna.
The first stop was the small town in
Žiežmariai, where there had once
been a Jewish community and where
we walked into what remained of
a wooden synagogue. It was an im-
mediate connection to our past, and
we experienced the gratification of
returning to the place from where our
ancestors once fled. Indeed, the ma-
jority of Lithuanian Jews are known
to have inhabited small towns such
as this, which were a cradle of Jewish
culture, whilst often working in the
larger cities.
We visited the largest Jewish cem-
etery in Lithuania in the outskirts
of Vilna, where we saw the tomb of
the highly influential Rabbi Eliyahu
(1720-1797), known as the Vilna
Gaon (“genius of Vilna”) after an
enlightening talk about his ethos by
a direct descendant of his among us.
Once in Vilna, a noteworthy visit was
to the site where the first copies of the
“Vilna Shas” were printed, which is
used throughout the Jewish world as
the authoritative, traditional edition
of the Talmud; rabbinic discussion
concerning Jewish law. Indeed, there
was a widespread saying that “if one
wants to gain wisdom – one goes to
Vilnius”, given the vast number of
centres of biblical study and distin-
guished scholars in the city.
We came together in the evening for
a superb, traditional JSoc Friday night
dinner with Israeli students of medi-
cine in Kovno. The next morning, on
walking around the Kovno city centre
it became clear we were the only ones
imprudent enough to be outside in
such cold, snow-lined streets – there
wasn’t a soul to be seen. An ideal op-
portunity to roll down hills covered
by snow in the island formed at the
confluence of the two rivers – the
Nemuras and the Neris.
Furthermore, remarkable visits
made on our last day, included the
now abandoned synagogue in the
Kovno town of Alexandrot, where
Rabbi Israel Salanter was based; head
of the Mussar movement – a Jewish
ethical and educational movement,
born in 19th Century Lithuania. We
walked the streets of the Slobodka
neighbourhood where the renowned
Slobodka Yeshiva (Jewish educa-
tional institution) was once located
and stood before breath-taking views
of Kovno, on a hill where the first
novel written in Hebrew is thought to
have been written, by the rivers which
were once the border between Russia
and former Prussia.
Most notable perhaps, was listening
to Chaim narrate to us the story of es-
cape of the last group of Jewish pris-
oners of Fort 9, a Nazi concentration
camp. Standing in the dark silence of
the tunnels in the fort in the biting
cold was a powerful means of helping
us understand what was experienced
by our forerunners.
In essence, we are very thankful to
everyone who made this trip possible.
The trip was funded by Holocaust sur-
vivor and businessman William Stern,
UJS, Tribe and Imperial College
Union. Thanks also go to the enthu-
siastic organizers of the trip within
Imperial JSoc, Noah Nathan first and
foremost, not to mention Gabriella
Lebrecht and Yoni Weiner. Not only
was it a cool off – -25ºC cool off –
from a long week at university, but a
unique experience we won’t forget.
us hours of brainstorming, weekends
of rehearsal, and sacrificing the time
we should have devoted to education to
come up with the jokes tailor-made for
the audience and to perfect the details
of our acting to deliver a show we can
be proud of.
No words can describe the energy
emanating from the stage during the
performance and no English words
can translate the witty wordplay, so to
experience it one would have to come
and see it live if you speak Russian or
if you’re learning it and can come along
with someone who speaks Russian (to
explain the references to political and
cultural background). But to give you
a flavour – our first performance in
the quarter-finals started with a geeky
character coming on stage with a dead-
serious announcement that “Imperial
College scientists have successfully
crossed Large Hadron Collider with a
washing machine. Now we know how
to do money laundering with the speed
of light” followed by an annoying gran-
ny ranting about immigrants and such
turning out to be Queen Elizabeth,
stoned Neo and Morpheus being “in the
Matrix” and finished off with the geeky
character announcing that “Imperial
College scientists have really enjoyed
the experiment, where they crossed…
Imperial College scientists! Now we’re
looking for collaboration with scientists
from other universities for crossing sci-
entists of a different sex.”
As the prize for winning the compe-
tition our team has been invited to go
to Jurmala, Latvia this summer for the
annual Singing KiViN festival, where
they will have a chance to compete with
teams from all over the world.
“It would be a trip
of rediscovery and
of return to the very
place our ancestors
once fled from”
“Standing in the dark
silence was a power-
ful means of helping
us understand...”
The semi finals. From left to right – Alexey Denisov, Alexander Bukharin,
Oksana Iamshanova, Egor Savvin, Nickolai Vysokov, Artem Romanov,
Egor Jevseev, Natalya Yankova, Anna Volokitin, Elena Yakluch
FELIX
Friday 16 MARCH 2012
48
felix@imperial.ac.uk
JSoc in Lithuania

