At 12:00 on Saturday 10 March, Im-
perial College’s second ever dodge-
ball tournament kicked off at Ethos
Sports Centre. 12 teams entered but
only a few had paid attention to the
poster stating: ‘Fancy Dress Advised’!
‘Dodgey Balls’ came in a football kit
and at first thought it seemed they had
turned up to the wrong event, while
‘Why Always Us?’ came wearing hats
which were used to distract their op-
position throughout the tournament!
However, the prize for best costume
went to ‘Orient Hurricanes’ (repre-
senting Orient House) who turned up
wearing suits and steaming drunk.
Apparently this had been from early
morning drinking and not the night
before!
The group stages went smoothly,
with three teams undefeated in their
group, ‘Handball’ who tactically
threw their balls together and blasted
their opponents away with the sheer
strength of their throws, ‘Garden and
Weeks’ who used the expert knowl-
edge from two players from the IC
Dodgeball Club to their advantage,
and ‘Wilson Old Boys’ led by Scott Es-
nouf. ‘Beit Hall’ also scraped through
to the semi finals by beating ‘The Me-
chanical Dodgineers’ in a play off for
the last place in the semis.
Teams not managing to secure places
in the finals then played again to deter-
mine their tournament ranking, which
can be found on the IC Dodgeball
Club Website. The semis, played at an
intense pace, produced ‘Handball’ and
‘Wilson Old Boys’ as the final two.
Next came an epic contest of strength
and agility where ‘Handball’ definitely
had the strength advantage but were
finally outmatched by the more expe-
rienced Wilson team who were more
solid in their catching game.
The last-man-standing competition,
a game where everyone is placed into
two huge teams and is a free for all,
was won by the team captain of ‘Wil-
son Old Boys’, Scott Esnouf, who was
clearly having a great day!
Be sure to come next year as the
event was a tremendous success (rais-
ing approx. £150) and will certainly be
repeated!
Tom Peake
‘Wilson Old Boys’ victorious after defeating ‘Handball’ in RAG Dodgeball Tournament
Zain Abbas
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 16 march 2012 49
Imperial’s Underwater Hockey team
played their first ever University Na-
tionals tournament last month in Cov-
entry, finishing 7th out of 18 universi-
ties.
The weekend saw the Imperial Un-
derwater Club enter a team in the Uni-
versity Underwater Hockey Nationals.
On Saturday morning a team of six,
missing two key players due to injury,
travelled on the Virgin Pendolino from
Euston to Coventry – a city where ar-
chitectural beauty is unheard of. Arriv-
ing at the Coventry Sports & Leisure
Centre, the team were brimming with
(as much) enthusiasm (as is possible at
8am in Coventry) on their first outing at
this great tournament.
The initial group stage saw Imperial
in a group with Aberdeen A, Bangor,
York B, and Warwick B. Aberdeen A
were the favourites to win the group and
challenge for the trophy. Our team cap-
tain Jeeves Dattani, having previously
captained Warwick B, was keen for a
strong win over his old side.
The first match was against York B,
and started in a disastrous fashion with
an early goal conceded on the counter-
attack. The remainder was fairly close
however, and goals from Jeeves Dat-
tani, Joe Slade and Jonny Ely saw the
team through to a 5-3 win.
The next match saw Imperial face the
daunting prospect of Aberdeen A – a
strong team who trounced Warwick 7-1
– our closest rivals in the group. Some
player recruitment was needed, and as
teams are allowed two players from dif-
ferent universities Kerstin Schillinger
(University of Kent) and Gordon Proc-
tor (Royal Holloway) – also playing for
their respective barbarian teams – joined
in. Aberdeen showed much of the same
attacking spirit against Imperial as they
had against Warwick B, winning 7-0 in
a strongly fought but ultimately unsuc-
cessful match.
Next on the cards were Bangor, a pre-
vious tournament host (with possibly
the worst after-party in living memory),
were easily walked over with a 9-1 win
with goals coming from nearly all our
players. With one match left to play,
things were set for a second place de-
cider. Imperial against Warwick B, the
winner finishing second with a draw
meaning Warwick B would finish on
top due to goal difference. The match
started badly with Warwick B scoring
the first goal, but the team’s determina-
tion came through bringing the score to
2-2. With a minute left to play Joe Slade
skipped past two Warwick defenders to
score the winner.
Imperial finished second in their
group; a fantastic result for their first
outing at the tournament putting them
into a group with all of the other sec-
ond placed teams from the other groups.
These were: Warwick A, Warwick Bar-
barians, Plymouth Barbarians and Ox-
ford (Barbarian teams are made up of
former students). This was a much more
experienced group with heavy defeats at
the hands of Warwick A, Warwick Bar-
barians and Plymouth Barbarians. Their
only hope remained in beating Oxford.
A now tired and worn Imperial team
took to the water and conceded the first
goal – starting the match on the back
foot. This continued and despite scoring
two goals past Oxford, courtesy of Jon-
ny Ely and Andy Strang, they lost 6-2.
This was a fantastic experience for
a young team who had never played
together before, and an overall tourna-
ment finish of 7th out of 18 university
teams and 10th out of 25 overall was a
good result which we will look to im-
prove on next year.
We train every week at St. Mary’s
pool, Paddington, at 7pm on
Mondays – usually followed by
a pint at the Fountains Abbey.
Meet in the Beit Quad at 6pm –
all you need to bring is swimming
gear and we’ll provide the rest of
kit for the session. This new and
rapidly expanding club is always
looking for more members.
Underwater Hockey is a fast
paced sport, played by teams of
six at the bottom of a pool with
four alternating substitute play-
ers. Invented in the early 1950s,
the object of the game is to move
a lead puck, with the help of a
hand held pusher, along the bot-
tom of the pool. Snorkels allow
the players to keep moving.
Dodgeball Tournament takes no prisoners
Want to play? What is Underwater Hockey?
Underwater Hockey make progress at Nationals
Rajeev Dattani
The clue’s in the name
Because ‘Diving for Lead’ just isn’t as catchy

