In Brief
Motor Club races towards fire
engine repair
Members of RCS Motor Club have got one stop
closer to fully repairing Jezebel, the RCSU’s 1916
fire engine, after successful remetalling of an en-
gine bearing, and reconstruction of the engine. Je-
zebel has been off the road since the end of last
year, following an engine fault when travelling back
from Brighton.
The new bearing has been produced in house
by the club, utilising the expertise of the club’s
alumni members. Following part of a metal ingot
being molten down and cast to form the new bear-
ing, it was then machined and etched to form a
good fit with the engine. The engine has now been
rebuilt, with distinctive features such as the pots,
radiator, and lights now reattached.
Jezebel now runs again under her own power,
and is capable of driving around. However, there
is still reassembly work to do, such as reattaching
the bonnet, before the repair is complete. These
alterations are expected to be completed soon.
The club have also recorded the production of
the new bearing, with a view to produce this into a
video released to the general public.
Philip Kent
FEATURE
FELIX
Friday 16 MARCH 2012
8
features.felix@gmail.com
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
Unseen Imperial
Anonymous accounts of student experiences
T
here are some aspects of our
lives that we just don’t talk about.
This makes it easy to think that
we’re alone in our experiences,
when in fact, we’re probably not.
Last week the Union asked the student
body to submit anonymous accounts of
their experiences of mental health. Sincere
thanks to everyone who took part – here
are the responses:
L
ast year my father was diag-
nosed with a serious illness. It
was the tipping point in a chain
of events that lead me to where
I am today. Talking about my
feelings, especially when it involves seeing
doctors and potentially taking medication,
has been met with very mixed responses. I’m
hoping by contributing and telling my story
I’ll be able to tell my friends the secrets that
I have kept from them for fear of what they
will think.
I’ve always been a stressy and panicky
person and throughout school my family,
my friends and I learnt to deal with it. Then,
when I came to University, it was picked up
by my personal tutor who thought it might be
best that I speak to a councillor in College.
To put the experience in short, I hated it. I
went to one session and within the space of
about 30 seconds I wanted to run. From that
point on I decided I’d just have to cope.
Over the course of the next few months
things went from OK to bad. Little things
became a big deal. I couldn’t go to a party
without feeling suffocated and really alone. I
couldn’t go on a tube or into a shop without
tears filling my eyes. I couldn’t keep on top
of my studying without exhausting myself
from fretting. I decided to go home for the
weekend to get away from it all.
It was that Friday night that I was told about
my father. My whole world came crashing
down. Despite the positivity of his doctors
my mind immediately jumped to the worst
conclusions. I cried a lot. I stopped sleeping.
The stress I was feeling started to manifest it-
self in physical problems that made me snap-
py and unsociable. At this point, just before
my exams, my mother suggested that I go see
the GP. She referred me to a councillor in the
health centre.
The counselling at the Health Centre be-
gan as awfully as it had previously in Col-
lege. There were awkward silences and it
was quite frankly really weird talking to a
stranger about my life. I felt like my prob-
lems were silly, but I persevered. I knew I
couldn’t continue to rely on my mother. Af-
ter the third session I finally started think-
ing about me and sorting myself out. As a
scientist one tends to learn to think in black
and white. Then when there is no evidence
you tend to think it’s not valid. It’s hard to
O
K, so here goes: In the not-too-
distant past, I was raped. I was
raped by someone I called my
friend, in my own bedroom,
during the day. And it is be-
cause of these details in particular that I would
like to write this note.
Like probably most of you, I was taught by
my parents, by my schools, and by the media
that I should be aware of the dangers of be-
ing raped when going out at night. I should not
dress in a revealing manner, I should carry my
drink around with me, I should be wary of men
that I do not know, and I should go home in a
taxi or licensed cab, or via the main, well-lit
streets. It seems naïve and stupid now, but this
is how I thought rape was played out. And I
thought that the victim would be visibly, physi-
cally hurt, and be left in some strange room or
dark alleyway.
So at the time, because of my misconcep-
tions about what rape is and the circumstances
under which it can happen, I was totally taken
aback and I was unprepared. Then after what
happened, I saw it in some way as not being
a “real” rape. I tried to be logical about it, and
said to myself that if I just forgot about it, it
wouldn’t hurt me. I managed to do this so well
define anything about the process that you
have to go through to change your mentality.
It’s a way of thinking that I had never before
employed.
So here I am today. I have learnt that I can-
not just deal with my worry and low mood;
I have to consciously make an effort to stop
it. Sometimes it’s exhausting. Sometimes I
feel myself taking a step backwards and even
sometimes things still spiral a bit. But I know
I’ll get there; it’s a work in progress that I
know will never be complete because no one
particular thing is going to stop it and make
it all go away.
You may feel that you’re fully accepting of
mental illness but imagine if your best friend
told you they were on anti-depressants. I
know how some of the people closest to
me reacted and it upset me and it stopped
me from speaking to anyone about my ex-
perience. If you’re reading this and you’re
anxious about revealing how you’re feeling
- don’t be! There’s a wide network of sup-
port out there to help you even if, like me,
you chose not to tell your friends. Use it. I
promise you that it’ll help if you can give it
the chance and are prepared to put in some
effort.
Email icu-disabilities@imperial.ac.uk if you would like to share your anonymous experiences of top
Bike auction brings the money
On Monday lunchtime ICU RAG and the Bike User’s
Group for the Imperial College Community (BUG)
held this year’s second bike auction. Up for sale
were 52 bikes varying from basic and run-down to
high-end racing frames. Prices this time around
were lower than October’s highly successful auc-
tion, in part due to lower numbers in attendance
and also due to the variable bike quality.
Head of Sport Imperial Neil Mosley once again
took on the role of auctioneer. BUG raised funds
for their workshop (with plans currently in prog-
ress) and RAG raised money for charity.
The total raised from the bikes sold amounted
to £1,100, with some rolling over to the next auc-
tion. This was a successful start to Cycling Week,
and the Dr. Bike Mechanics on-site once again
proved very useful to the students, both for bikes
bought at auction and those from home, providing
both repairs and professional and personal advice
about the bikes and cycling.
Special thanks go to everyone who came along,
Andy from Sport Imperial, Deputy President (Wel-
fare) Nicolas Massie and College Security for all
their help in securing the bikes, auctioning them
off and assistance provided on the day, and Stef
Piatek for organising everything.
Jack Hewitt – RAG Chair
Afonso Campos
The auction spinning into action

