FEATURE
FELIX Friday 16 MARCH 2012 9
that I did not make the links between
this and my insomnia, some of the
subsequent changes in my behaviour,
attitudes and emotional side, and the
relationships I had with important peo-
ple in my life. This changed when last
summer I got a few snapshot flashbacks
of what happened, and everything was
suddenly made clear. I felt anger that I
did, and still don’t, know how to express
or release. I felt that it was my fault for
not dealing with it earlier, and so I felt
deep, painful regret for what I had lost
in the meantime and I soon slipped into
depression. I could not focus on work or
other areas of my life, and outbursts of
these emotions sometimes (still) spring
out of me at the slightest trigger. I guess
what I am trying to say here is that I was
very naïve and ignorant of how rape can
happen, and the serious effects it can
have on emotional, mental and physical
well-being in the longer term.
I also had misconceptions of who and
what counselling services are for, be-
lieving that they were only for people
with extremely serious difficulties. This
meant that I did not look for help from
a counselling service until I truly was
in a dire state, and ultimately needed a
lot more help. I believe that this is prob-
ably the case for many people at least in
the British society – admitting that one
needs counselling, and then that we are
going to counselling, is still very taboo
here. It was only towards the end of this
year that I did not make up some excuse
about where I was going on Tuesday af-
ternoons when people asked, again fear-
ing awkwardness. It turns out that there
was no awkwardness at all, and I would
encourage anyone else who is going or
has been, to be more open about visit-
ing a counsellor. It is not just for those
with serious mental health issues, there
is no reason to be ashamed for going,
and contrary to what I initially thought,
they help enormously.
I
’m a female Imperial Student
and wrote this poem for you
about my mental health ex-
periences. I feel down every
fortnight or so, wasting hours
on the internet, having eating binges,
not being able to get anything done
that I wanted to or talk to anyone
about what I’m going through. On
the outside I can be quite an outgo-
ing and upbeat person! I do think I
have low self-esteem though. I have
never sought any help, partly due to
the stigma, partly because I deny that
I do have a problem.
Underneath
No one knows what lies under the sur-
face,
Is it better that way?
Feel I have to be fun around my friends
Or they won’t be friends anymore.
So I stay inside, safe in my own world,
But it’s in my own world where my
thoughts suffocate me.
When the shadow passes I don’t want to
talk about it anyway.
Just pretend it never happened,
Try to move on
To sunnier days.
W
hen I was 14 I de-
veloped depression.
Things were really
difficult, I was self
harming and miss-
ing a lot of school and I had completely
lost my friends – it’s a very isolating
experience. Even though I saw a psy-
chologist, I couldn’t talk to anyone – I
felt massively ashamed that I wasn’t
coping, I’d always been a high achiever
and wasn’t the “type” to struggle so I
put up this wall and refused to face up
to things. It took several years of thera-
py before the depression and self harm
started to be less present in my life –
I was 17 by the time I was discharged
and outwardly coping pretty well with
things. I say outwardly as although I’d
mostly stopped self harming, it’d been
replaced with an eating disorder. I’d
had it for years before I finally told my
doctor about it, having moved to Impe-
rial and finding things getting out of
control again – getting good grades and
keeping busy became a lot more stress-
ful and pressurised in a uni environment
than back in 6th form and combined
with homesickness I just found myself
completely overwhelmed. I’m now
waiting to start treatment for my eating
disorder. I wish I’d spoken out earlier
and asked for help back when I first
became ill but that’s what makes men-
tal health problems so difficult to cope
with. It’s a lot easier to admit to hav-
ing a cold or something physical than
to admit that actually, things are really
tough but talking about it is so impor-
tant. Sometimes people react badly, but
often they don’t – without the support
of people like my friends and my mum,
things would have been a lot harder.
We’d really like to run more articles
like this. If you’d like to share your
experiences of anything people
don’t openly discuss, such as
faith, sexuality, body image, men-
tal health, disability or discrimina-
tion of any kind, please email icu-
disabilities@imperial.ac.uk. You
can create an anonymous email
address to send it from and any de-
tails which could be used to identify
you will be edited out.
pics that are not openly discussed

