How famous are bis? And what for? Well, lefs list all the
tired pop-tastic facts about the Scottish trio. They
appeared on Top of the Pops when they were still
unsigned. They released their early EP's (one of them the
very famous Secret Vampire Soundtrack featuring the -
cheery candy pop) s ^ r ^ ^ ^ n money. And, of course, *
y pop] w
ifoJto)JLQ w r i m o r
they were hounded by aH the top record companies
The debut .-tor Heroes has been
a while in Coming now and so h< >s been awaited with
baited b r i n t t p a lot of their tans We have Manda Rin,
Sci-fi Steve^Sljohn Disco here on many a pop outing
worthy of their status as the industry's favourite kids. Short,
sharp and, er, chirpy numbers adorn this album life*
ellry would on Mr.T and are sung, sorry, sh<
tremendous gusto. More often than not, thi
with all members of the band, too. One wo
springs to mind when listening to this lot. TN
real rush to get somewhere and they seem ti
time for singing anything along the way and thf.
ingly results in a set of three-minute panic-attacks.
Sometimes ifs difficult to understand what Manda Is actu-
ally saying due to her peculiar pronunciation of some of
the words but you get used to it.
::: The songs cover a wide range of topics from setting the
trio up as some sort of rights protesters in Tell it to the kids
to how pop stars can be dead, dead nasty people
in Popstar Kill. Then there's a desire to be an eight-
ies film star (why?) in Starbnght 8c, where they T p o n e i e t n i ' U a v n a p
want 'big hair, permed and curly looking meat i I idllSISIUl tlGlUCS
and surly'.
One question needs to be asked, though Why ail the
fuss? Yeah, bis are bringing a nuance of something differ-
ent and exciting to the music industry but they can get
toying after about half an hour by which time
ihey begin to sound like whiny three-year oldjkurely this
must hi stered onto people? I've b*
are ex o. and I can well imagine,^
they are |||piot a bancLvou^ajn listen to on a stereo at
home for t p long. U o | - t d o ^ } h e ^ j ^ ; | « * 3 l ^ g | | ? |
reserve my final j u d J H M w J S
ALBUM
The New
S
I
N
G
L
E
S
arab strap-the clearing
This song is the pinnacle
ot melancholy and epito-
mises an indescribable
ios< The blend of acoustic
guitar, piano and cello tits
perfectly together in this
track of irrepressible
: despairi
Atok
The page of those rock family trees with Jolt on it makes
for curious reading. Senseless Things splits into two:
Morgan Nicholls forms Vent 414 with The Wonderstuffs
Miles Hunt (Nicholls then left them last month), while Mark
Keds forms Jolt with B B Mets of Mambo Taxi (I haven't
heard of them either). History aside, it's time to talk about
Jolfs latest appetite wetting offering. And there's one
problem with the 6 track/18 minute long Punk Jungle
Rules, ifs just way too short by half.
There's a peculiar mixture of influences that makes up
Jolfs sound and which makes them addictive listening.
Trying your best not to wince, take bis's older brother and
sister playing amphetamine loaded Terrorvision guitars,
and maybe just a sprinkling of the now prehistoric sound-
ing grunge, and you're almost there.
There's the frenzied Certain Death Estate which repre-
Jolt
MINI ALBUM
•mm
1 0 8 4 / 1
sents Jolfs attempt at the eponymous crossover, taking
on the racing tempo of a jungle beat. They're not quite
there yet, but they're at least offering a different way to
take on this mixture than the laid back patented
grooves of the Sneaker Pimps. Was it Wild\s their PlUlK J
1
1
1
1
9
1
6 RUICS
'slowy' and clocks in at an 'epic' 4:42, and every-
thing distorted, is standard issue. They sound their most
bis-esque in Fruit Machine, but thankfully B B's squeal is
not quite as annoying as Manda Rin's. And if a bit of
melody, plain old singing, and perhaps single material is
called for Son of a Gangster steps in to provide great a
pogo-popping tune.
If this is a starter, I look forward to the main course. So
taking those two fellas quantity and quality into account,
this one gets (7).
Sam
wsmm
The Charlies, as we like to affectionately call them, have
been around for quite some time, since back in 1990
when they were mixed up in the whole 'baggy' scene and
werj rMCTW^frtoeing Stone Roses wannabes. Some
•Sf- accusations to rest with its quality
content such as the blistering The Only One I Know and
hod them riding the crest of the 'baggy' wave. Their reply
la this early sm lease a less commercial
second album and a equally good third one, however the
saies still weren ley were then expected to p y |
fhe^ptug and slip aptly to depart from the music
scene for even following tie likes of Ihg other early 90's
brigade. They'll have to thank Britpopfor fheiSuccess of'
The CfW&oteins and ultimately the reason they're still
around, and more popular than they were in their baggy
days. The good times came to an abrupt end with the M
tragic death ottbb Collins, the qiftedtJ^6gjBifclof ttwa.'i
band. However they vowed to o
dedication by playing the pre-scheduled Oasis gigs and
V96 tr rd in August te.*
Anor tho T I P O S I ol L . »^^^^^^^^^^^^^^1
Brothers style sample, the album was looking to be
afraid if you were expecting some sort of Indie/dance tout
with a more original type of sound) crossover considering
irlatans
the amount of work
they've done with the said
duo you are going to be
disappointed, ftn *ose
to One To Another is the instrumental Area 51 The rest ot
it is in stark contrast, ranging from the Just When You're
•
the Bob Dylan-esque Gel On /rthat sounds suspiciously
ilar to Like A Rolling Stone There is a difference from
,t album in that there is a similar sound to all the
songs (although they don't all sound the same) while on
thelasi one there was a real range of styles. Nevertheless
they Haven't los, when if comes to mixing rock;
funk anc pop as epitomised on the absolutely class track
Onlyt§ethin: The temporal I Primal Scream's key-
boardist, Duffy, may hove influenced this record a bit, with
thouTh they'd be right at home
-ell with Tellin'Stories, with
at tracks, arr instrumental
i but not real goers.
• c a s a n t m
• Jason
ALBUM
Tellin' Stories
S
I
N
G
L
E
S
sludge nation-monkey on
my back
Packed with distorted gui-
tars and Pixies-ish sounds
litis track early ad me
meshing along to it.
30 amp fuse-l fall down
Aiming straight for the
jugular the roaring speed
and energy of thrashed
out guitars hits you hard.
prolapse-killing the bland
ElasticalElasticafElasticat is
what this track screams at
you, though despite its
unoriginality 1 still like
the spoken bits.
IASON

