i sneak preview of
some of the potential hits
appearing this term...
Donnie Brasco
(2nd May)
Johnny Depp and Al
Pacino meet in the "best
gangster film since
Goodfellas". Depp is an
undercover FBI agent who
must infiltrate a mob by
befriending Leflie, an age-
ing hit-man played by
Pacino.
The Devil's Own
(9th May)
Brad Pitt and Harrison
Ford star in this suspense
thriller. Pitt is a young Irish
immigrant taken under the
wing of a New York police
officer (Fordl. Soon, howev-
er, the charming, honest
kid turns out to be on a
murderous mission in con-
nection with the IRA....
• i . 'i i
love and Other
Catastrophes
This is a
warm, screw-
ball tale about
( I S ) love, fate and
other pressing
concerns of five Australian students. There's Danni and
Mia, a pair of lesbians who are having a shaky patch over
commitment to one another. There's frustrated perfection-
ist Alice, a postgrad whose thesis on "Doris Day as
Feminist Warrior" is four years late. She's looking for the
perfect bloke who, amongst other things, must be left-
handed, honest and like the same films as her. Two pos-
sible contenders are Ari, a Classics student and part-time
gigolo and Michael, a shy medical student living with
housemates from hell.
The directorial debut for 23 year old Emma Kate
Croghan follows a day in the life of this oddball bunch of
characters: Ifs a typical student life, involving parties,
searching for accommodation and thinking about sex
rather than having it. The filmmaker and her unknown
cast are obviously just out of uni as they manage to catch
the campus spirit perfectly, from the bureaucratic night-
mare of swapping courses to the panic of avoiding lectur-
ers to whom you owe work. The film is also spot on with
250497
Liar, Liar
12nd May)
The plastic-faced Jim
Carrey returns as a ruthless
lawyer who one day falls
foul of one of his son's
wishes - he no longer has
the ability to lie. This looks
funnier than most of
Carrey's films and has
already gone down well in
America...
Batman and Robin
(27th June)
An all-star cast including
George Clooney as Batman
as well as Arnie and Uma
Thurman as baddies take
part in the fourth instalment
of the series. There's also
the welcome addition of
Batgirl in the form of Alicia
Silverstone...
the type of people you come across at college, from the
geeks to the (mis)adventurous ones like Ari who will "try
anything once, except incest and folk-dancing."
Whilst the director's age helps make the film amusingly
realistic, it is also responsible for its main faults. Unable to
raise much funding she shot the whole thing for £20,000,
less than a second's worth of a Hollywood film, and
unfortunately it shows. Some of the filters used make the
colours look like something from Top of the Pops in the
"I'll try anything once, except incest
and folk-dancing."
seventies. They also could have done with some help
from an experienced script-writer. The dialogue is a bit
functional and so the film is very short at just over an hour,
despite several time-filling party scenes.
The actors, however, do very well with the material.
Frances O'Connor in particular, who plays Mia, has a Jack
Nicholson-esque smile that may well be very famous one
day. In the meantime this is harmless and charming stuff,
but probably not worth paying for when there are so
many high quality films around at the moment.
chris
MOONLIGHT
Box of Moonlight is similar to one of those films i
shown on morning TV during school holidays. It's
a flight of fantasy where the viewer never knows
what bizarre discovery or accident will next hap-
pen to the characters. They might find a pair of
shoes that lets them see into the future or a hat
that makes them temporarily invisible. But by the
end of the story, we always know everyone
onscreen will have learnt something about life and
everything will return to normal.
Al (John Turturro) is the man around whom this
particular fable is based, an electrical engineer
approaching something of a mid-life crisis. He is
supervising a construction job miles from home, but
is the sort of chap who phones his wife twice a day,
irons his shirt every night and goes to the toilet at the
same time every morning. However, one day the entire
job is unexpectedly cancelled and everybody goes
home except Al. He calls his wife, tells her the job is
still on, and realises that for the first time in his life he
has no responsibilities, no deadlines and no obliga-
tions. This is when he meets 'The Kid" (Sam
I Rockwell), a Huck Finn type who introduces Al to a
lifestyle where food is caught, washing is a dip
in a lake and work is a four letter word.
The director, Tom DiCillo, manages to
suck the audience into this yarn. We real-
ly feel for Al when, for example, the lake
he once visited as a child is no longer
swum in due to the toxic waste that has
been dumped in it. However, when the film
finished and the predictable ending has
occurred there is a slight sense of disappointment.
There are some very amusing scenes and a few
poignant moments but they are too few and far
between. John Turturro is his usual high-quality self and
there's nothing to dislike about the film but ifs just a bit
lightweight. Nonetheless, ifs an easy way to while
away Iwo hours on a rainy day.
chris
A Self Made Hero •
A young boy, Albert, growing up in provincial France just
before WW2 spends his time pretending to be the heroes
of the books and comics he reads. His mother also
spends her time in fantasy, dreaming that her husband
was a hero in WW1 when in fact he was a drunkard.
When Albert discovers that she has been lying about his
father to him, it shapes his perception of the world and
has a tremendous effect on his life. Winner of the Best
Screenplay award at last years Cannes Film Festival, this
gentle comedy written and directed by Jacques Audiard
and starring Mathieu Kassovitz (who himself directed the
acclaimed l a Haine') is an absolute delight.
On paper the story of Albert's rapid rise through the
French army seems totally unbelievable but, such is the
story-telling ability of Audiard and the wonderful perfor-
mance of Kassovitz, you are swept along with it all the
same. The film is apparently a reflection on how the
French view their role in the War, and how reality can be
very different than what we perceive it to be. The charac-
ter of Albert evolves throughout the film, from the inno-
cence of a young day-dreamer to a responsible and
mature adult, albeit one who has used deceptive means
to get where he is in life. When Albert's downfall comes, it
is not because the lies he has told have been found out,
but because he realises that you cannot ignore the truth
within yourself. This is an effective film which confidently
carries a powerful message that gives the audience plen-
ty to think about.
film

