Now Showing:
Return of the Jedi
The final installment of the
jazzed-up trio is released
today. The changes are
more noticeable than in the
other films as two lengthy
scenes have been intro-
duced. Gone is the blue
elephant and his piano in
Jabba's lair, to be replaced
by a far more groovy band
playing a far better tune for
at least a minute of screen
time. There's also a new
ending with cities through-
out the galaxy being
shown celebrating the
Empire's downfall. The
ewoks are still too cute but
ifs unmissable nonetheless
Sit in the front row of a big-
screen cinema and enjoy!
S F T W
The latest TV series to be
reconfigured for the big
screen is The Saint, and
once again Hollywood have
messed th|»M|tole thing up.
Val Kilmefls the titular
saint, a suj^|aUv«-catbur-
glar and master of disguise.
In fact he has so many
names that he doesn't really
know his own name. In a
fairly unnecessary prologue
we learn he is an orphan
who has beep named
Simon after the saint. He
makes u p j w i ^ f f l S m e
Templar (Thejoriginal name
of the Saint'from the
books/TV) from a comic
book. He is a free-lance
agent, open to the highest
bidder, and whilst out on his penultimate job (stealing a
microchip fen some Russian corporation) he runs into a
spot of bother with the Russian Mafia.8
Having learned
who he is they then employ him themselves to steal the
formula for cold fusion from an American chemist, Emma
Russell (Elisabeth Shue), working in Oxford. He conse-
quently seduces her and steals the forrSula. However,
when he finds out the Russians intend to kill her he gets
involved to save her life because he is falling in love with
her. The film then shifts to Moscow, wheTfenero plus girl
face the Russian military and get involved in saving civili-
sation as we know it from the
Mafia.
Clearly this is a far cry from
Roger Moore'^ original, in fact
Kilmer doesn't actually
become therSaipt until the end
of the film. This Saint is a high-
ly skilled loger who has no
identity or home who care for
him and wdWs only for him-
self. In fact he is not very saint-
ly at all. It is only through the
rather cliched concept of
falling in lawlhat he begins to
think beyortdmirn^glf. We
know thaj»beeause this char-
acter is Simon Templar and
because he is played by Val
Kilmer that wef are supposed
to identify with and route for
him, but because for so much
of the film he is such an anti-hero we don't really care
what does happen to him most of the!
by Val Kilmer, one of the least exciting^
actors in Hollywood, doesn't help eitfe
starts to get irritating that he keeps esc
of the muchVfore interesting and ente|
Thus, The Saint is a rather disappoint!
the classic TVselies, spoilt by a highly j
some truly appalling dialogue and a really crap ending. In
short it just isfWfhe Saint. If you want to see the genuine
article, watch it on TV on Saturday. spooky
Being played
charasmatic
ything it
ing the clutches
jning bad guys,
reworking of
trived plot,
Eddie
Whoopi Goldberg is back in
this story of an avid basket-
ball fan who one day gets
the opportunity of a lifetime.
The boss of the New York
Knicks asks her to coach for
just one game as a publici-
ty stunt but she goes down
a storm, and he decides to
keep her. The giant team,
however, aren't keen on
taking instructions from a
pint-sized female and the
ensuing arguments see
Whoopi at her best There's
nothing that hasn't been
done a dozen times before
here but ifs a good vehicle
for the comedienne's
humour. Don't go expecting
anything new and you
won't be disappointed
©
Despite being dubbed the "Welsh Trainspotting", and
indeed executively produced by Andrew MacDonald and
Danny Boyle, this tale of Swansea life fails to live up to its
billed expectations.
The Lewis family are a group of eccentrics and lay-
abouts, living in a caravan estate in Swansea. The head
of the family Fatty Lewis falls off a ladder whilst working
for local bigwig Bryn Cartwright and the Lewis Twins, a
pair of losers who like to go joy-riding in expensive cars,
approach Cartwright for compensation. He dismisses
them with contempt and the Twins vow revenge. Mixed in
with this are several other characters, namely a couple of
bent coppers Terry and Greyo, and Dai Rees, a self-styled
karaoke king.
The main problem is that all the various sub-plots are
so interconnected that no one story line is allowed to
dominate. In order to accommodate all the plot lines the
perspective of the film needs to keep shifting such that the
audience is never allowed to grow accustomed to one. As
a result, instead of becoming involved with the develop-
ments on screen one forms a rather apathetic view point.
The situation isn't helped by most of the characters having
very few redeemable features. This makes it hard to
identify with the characters and consequently one doesn't
really care what happens to them. Usually a complex
story line helps to maintain interest but in this case the
pacing and the timing of the various sub-plots is all
wrong. The film tends to spend too little time on the inter-
esting areas and vice versa. Plus, they vary from the
banal to the melodramatic and consequently often the
juxtaposition can ruin a scene before it begins.
This is not to say that the film doesn't have its moments.
A wicked sense of black humour and some realistic acting
from a set of mainly unknowns helps to keep the film
afloat, and prevents one's interest from straying too far.
Ultimately though the problem lies with the writer-direc-
tor's (Kevin Allen - brother of the more famous Keith) inex-
perience. There is certainly potential in his work, it just
needs to be refined somewhat. Thus, despite being ulti-
mately disappointing, Twin Town is still an admirable
debut feature and serves as further evidence that the
British film industry is going strong.
spooky
film

