F E L I X FRIDAY 2 5 T H APRIL LETTERS & NOTICES 19
Letters to Felix
Cinema goes to waste
Dear Felix,
The loss of the bookshop is a sig-
nificant loss of funding for the
Union. Therefore, the Union should
make the best of its current assets.
ICU Cinema has a 33mm projector, a
new 30ft screen and technically it is
one of the best student cinemas in the
country. However, the Concert Hall
is primarily for the use of DramSoc,
OpSoc and other staged events. This
means that the cinema can't get regu-
lar bookings.
If there were a separate venue, the
cinema could not only cater for
FilmSoc, but also SciFiSoc, the
Indian Film Group, and other soci-
eties, as well as serving Conference
in the holidays. Moreover, this would
create substantial revenue for the
Union. At present FilmSoc has made
at least £5,000 this year and so far
has 1413 members about 100 of
whom are U L U staff and students not
frcm IC. With the redevelopment of
Beit Quad under consideration, I feel
a more permanent venue for the cin-
ema would prove as popular as it
would profitable. At present I believe
the cinema is clearly a wasted asset.
John Wilson,
ICU Cinema Publicity
...and while we're at it, LeoSoc
need a room, STOIC's studio is far
too small, the Outdoor Club could
do with a seperate store, etc... It
would be lovely if they could, but
even if there is extra space, flexibil-
ity by all will be the key...
Tough on students, tough
on the causes of students
Dear Felix,
At last the wait is over. For eigh-
teen long years students have suf-
fered under the imperialist, capitalist
Tories. Now, at long last, we the
future of this country can smell
power. No more student loans! No
more crumbling universities! No
more libraries starved of books! All
those demonstrations against Tory
misrule, the marches to Trafalgar
Square - the comradeship of a minor-
ity group oppressed like no other -
all of that was wonth it. In just one
week, the Labour Le.ader, our leader.
Tony 'Man of the People' Blair will
walk into Downing Street and begin
the renaissance of the masses.
Hands trembling with anticipation
I buy a copy of the manifesto. I
almost can't open it, I am shaking -1
am shaking! Oh what bliss to be
alive! Education - where is it - there
page 6. 'Education our number one
priority'. Page nine, 'Higher
Education'. What will the grant be?
£4000, £5000 - perhaps even £6000?
No, remember Tony's determined to
keep public spending down - he
probably settle for just five grand.
Here it is, ''The improvement and
expansion needed..' Too right! At
'em Tony! We will overcome those
Tory bastards! '...cannot be funded
out of general taxation..' God! He's
proposing a special tax - a university
money-raising tax! This is good shit!
'...Our proposalsfor funding...' Here
comes, here comes money! '...have
been made to the Dearing
Committee, in line with successjul
policies abroad..'. Successful poli-
cies abroad?
What does Tone mean? In line
with foreign practice? Sounds good
though! And now.for maintenance
grants!. '...The costs of student main-
tenance should be repaid by gradu-
ates on an income-related basis,
from the career success to which
higher education has contributed.'
Oh.
Well.
It could be worse.
It's just not quite what I was
expecting.
[Telephone Rings]
Hello. Yes that's me. You want an
ex-NUS President to stand as a
Labour candidate? You want me?
Will I do it? You bet I will! So that's
- meet Peter at 3:30. I'll be there.
That's that then. New Labour.
Tough on students, tough on the
causes of students. Never forget how
privileged they are. Short hours,
cheap beer, lots of sex. And in
today's increasingly globalised
world one has to keep taxes low to
remain competitive. We do support
students, and do want them to suc-
ceed with the best possible funding.
But only when resources allow. We
cannot promise what we cannot
deliver. Investment and training are
the key. Invest in people. Invest in
students. Graduate loans. Tough on
students, tough on crime. Tough on
the causes of crime. Harriet Harman.
Peter Mandelson. Fiscal propriety.
When resource allow. Investment
and training. No tax increases.
Privatise, realise, socialise, no not
that last one. Investment and training.
When resources allow...
Name and address retained
Dear Felix,
I have just discovered that my end
of year finals this year are to be held
in a marquee in Prince's Gardens
instead of the Great Hall. I discov-
ered this via a notice posted up in
halls of residence which explains that
a marquee will be erected as a venue
for college examinations as the Great
Hall is affected by building work. On
reading this, I initially thought that it
was some kind of joke. However, I
decided to check with my depart-
ment. On the urgent noticeboard in
the department of chemistry, there
was a notice. A4 sized, not particu-
larly eyecatching, unsigned and
undated. It was apparently to confirm
letters sent to us all by registry,
informing us of the location change.
However, as yet, no such notification
has been received from the registry. I
wonder how many other people out
there will be surprised by the change
of venue ?
As if this complete breakdown of
communication were not bad
enough, I am appalled that the stu-
dents of one of the top four institu-
tions in the country are forced to sit
their end of year examinations in
what is effectively a tent in the gar-
den between two of their halls of res-
idence. No matter what efforts are
made to control noise levels, it will
be impossible to silence the noise
from Exhibition Road, which is
clearly audiable from the garden.
And if it rains, the sound of raindrops
on the canvas would create a distract-
ing background noise. Are we, per-
haps, to depend on the oh-so-reliable
British weather for examination-
level silence ? And if so, is this not a
little optimistic ?
Personally, I would like to see a lit-
tle more regard for the needs of the
college's undergraduate students,
and I am sure that many out there
will agree with me. Maybe if a few
more people are prepared to voice
their dissatisfaction things may get a
little better for us.
If you are also affected by this, or
think you might be, or are just
appalled by this disgraceful attitude,
please say so. Please make noise
about it. Email people, ring them,
pester them until they are sick of
hearing your voice. If nobody com-
plains, nothing will get done and
abomintaions like this will continue.
(Oh, and please feel free to email me:
j.walmsley@ic).
regards,
Jon Walmsley, Chemistry II
Letters may edited for content
or length.
The deadline for letters to be
published in the next issue of
Felix is Tuesday 29th April.
Letters may be e-mailed to our
address: felix@ic.ac.uk
Papers for nominations for the post of
President are now up opposite the Union
Office.
A N Y F U L L M E M B E R O F T H E U N I O N M A Y S T A N D F O R T H E
P O S T . P A P E R S C O M E D O W N O N 2 N D M A Y .
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
©Felixl997. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
N E W S : M A T T H E W A N D T O N Y ; F E A T U R E S : R O B I N ; W E B E D I T O R : L E O N ;
P H O T O G R A P H Y : R O B I N ; S P O R T : S I M O N ; C O L L A T I N G L A S T ISSUE: I C A N ' T
R E M E M B E R B U T T H A N K S T O Y O U A L L , Y O U K N O W W H O Y O U A R E .
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS
PLEASE NOTE:
All examinations which were scheduled to be
held in the Great Hall between the sdates on
Monday 28th April 1997 and Friday 20th
June 1997 inclusive have been relocated and
they will now be held in the marquee which
has been set up on Prince's Gardens, oppo-
site the Southside halls of residence.

