2 NEWS F E L I X FRIDAY 2 5 T H APRIL
Exam chaos
continued from frontpage
However, Mr Caldwell noted that
while it would be possible to "have a
rave in the libraries and no-one could
hear it in the Great Hall, the noise
from certain simple activities such as
drilling transmits right through the
structure." Drilling has been kept to
a minimum with adhesives used in
the place of screws in many places,
but it can not be avoided every-
where.
The changes are likely to cause
confusion with candidates, with
many departments still not having
posted the changes up on examina-
tions boards.
Making the contractors working
around the exams was also exam-
ined, but found to be impracticable,
especially as there are time restric-
tions on working hours set by local
residents.
The possibility of taking the dis-
turbance into account when grades
are being considered has not yet
been discussed by College authori-
ties, but with students complaining
at the short notice given to them for
the change, and the new environ-
ment having its own problems, it
may yet happen.
Bookshop dead and buried
...which has been transformed over Easter into the imaginatively-named
greetings cards and refill pads (among other things). The shop's range will
there will be a 'rolling video information service'.
SOUTHWELL HALL
WARDEN
The College invites applications for the position of
warden of Southwell Hall which falls vacant from
October 1997. Southwell Hall in Evelyn Garens
houses approximately 170 students in a terrace of
Victorian houses. It is being refurbished in two
stages in Summer 1997 and Summer 1998.
The Warden will receive rent free family accommoda-
tion in return for pastoral duties within the hall, aided
by an Assistant Warden and Subwardens.
Any non-undergraduate member of the College may
apply but the post is particularly suitable for staff with
some experience of student pastoral care e.g.
through tutoring or other wardening experience, and
want to live in a student environment.
Further details and application forms can be obtained
from Janet Jones, Office Services Manager, Room
512 Sherfield Building, extension 45536.
The closing date for receipt of applications is 30th
April 1997. It is expected that short-listed candidates
will be interviewed in mid-May.
continued from frontpage
across Prince Consort Road and
South along Queensgate.
As planned, the procession paused
briefly outside 170 Queensgate,
where a meeting of the College's
governing body was in session,
before turning in towards the
Queen's Lawn. Passing tacitly by the
site of the new Waterstone's
Bookstore, the number of marchers
was swollen by students joining in
from along the route.
The coffin was laid ceremonially
at the foot of the Queen's Tower, and
the assembled company paid their
last respects during a few moments
silence. The cortege even drew a few
dipped safety helmets from the con-
struction workers on the Bio-Medical
Sciences site. Robert Clarke, incom-
ing Imperial College Union Deputy
President for Finance & Services,
then gave a brief speech finishing on
an optimistic note.
The coffin was hoisted once more,
and carried up the stairs to the Senior
Common Room, past open-mouthed
diners and Sherfield staff. The pro-
cession received a somewhat warmer
reception as it moved through the
Junior Common Room, before occu-
pying the Sherfield Walkway en
route to its ultimate destination.
Students more than filled the old
bookstore as the coffin was laid to
rest in the window, topped by a
PHOTO: ALEX
'Union Shop', with a vast array of
expand over the coming weeks, and
human skull.
The day's events, organised by the
Union's Executive Committee, were
intended more as a show of feeling
rather than a demonstration designed
to bring about change. Despite their
obvious frustration and disappoint-
ment at losing the right to sell books
on campus, students leaving the
'wake' were in good spirits and
immediately headed for the bar.
Later, one member of the Committee
explained the significance of the
Easter holiday to the Union: "The
bookstore may have been betrayed
for thirty pieces of silver by a Judas
in the Sherfeld building, but on the
third day, when we roll the rock from
the front of the cave, we were confi-
dent that it would rise again - as the
new 'Union shop.'"
The first day of the summer term
saw students browsing for course
texts among copies of The Science
of Star Trek' beneath Waterstone's
imposing new entrance beside the
Library turnstiles. Meanwhile, the
first day of trading at the Union's
new Sherfield Walkway outlet her-
alded the culmination of several
weeks' busy work by the Shop's staff
and a hectic last weekend to com-
plete the fit out.
The Shop has undergone dramatic
refurbishment, and expanded its
ranges of stationery, College regalia
and other equipment.

