4 NEWS F E L I X FRIDAY 25TH APRIL
Does British science need saving?
TONY OFORI
Tuesday lunchtime saw representa-
tives from the three major political
parties gather for a debate on the
future of British science. The meet-
ing, held in the Mechanical
Engineering lecture theatre in front of
an audience largely consisting of aca-
demics, was organised by the Save
British Science Society and was
aimed at raising public awareness
about the current situation of science
in this country.
The meeting was opened by the
Rector, Sir Ronald Oxburgh, who
introduced the three guest speakers:
Ian Taylor, the Conservative
Minister for Science; Adam Ingram,
his Labour counterpart; and Lord
Ezra from the Liberal Democrats.
They were each allowed five minutes
at the beginning to express their
views, where Mr Taylor stated that
the performance record for science in
Britain was good and the three main
disciplines of science, engineering
and technology are "alive and well".
Unsurprisingly the shadow minister
for Labour disagreed, claiming that
the Conservative party have damaged
the science industry which is now in
need of drastic improvement. Lord
Ezra concurred with Mr Ingram, but
also pointed out the necessity of
heavy spending.
Although this meeting was not
packed with excitement (there were
no fist-fights and no one threw a
glass of water over anyone else),
some interesting points were raised.
P H O T O : A L E X
The Rector, Sir Ronald Oxburgh, and the Labour spokesman for Science
and Technology, Adam Ingram, in last Tuesday's debate. In the past, the
Rector has called upon alumni to make HE and science an election issue.
Two of the more thought-provoking
questions were: 'would the new gov-
ernment be prepared to foot the fore-
casted £1 billion bill required to get
British science back at the forefront
of industry?'; and 'what plans are
there to promote science to the
younger generation?'. In response to
the former, Mr Taylor dismissed the
figures as misleading but added that
steps have been taken to get industry
to invest more. Mr Ingram's answer
was that a problem does not get
solved by throwing money at it. For
the latter question, a consensus was
reached that more had to be done, but
the only solution offered was to
encourage successful scientists/engi-
neers to make themselves known so
that they could act as role models.
Some interesting statistics about
science in the U K were given during
the debate including the fact that
£590 million of the government's
total budget goes into research; the
percentage of qualified scientists and
engineers between 20 and 24 years
old is greater than that of most coun-
tries including the US; and since the
mid 1980s there has been a 60% rise
in science-based employment.
At the end of the debate one thing,
at least, was clear - Britain would be
deficient without a firm science and
technology base and if it is to stay in
contention with its competitors, these
areas would have to become more of
a priority to which ever government
is in power after the counting stops
next Friday morning.
CathSoc provides Shelter for Homeless
N E W S T E A M
Shelter, the National Campaign for
Homeless People, was the happy
recipient of a £1,000 donation by
ICU's Catholic Society, Methodist
Society and the West London
Chaplaincy. The money, raised as
part of a joint charity drive by the
societies, will go to provide training
and support for Shelter's work
throughout the country.
Maria Gregoriou, a Community
Networks Fundraiser for Shelter,
outlined how the money would be
put to good use: "We are going to
promote policies to provide effective
long-term solutions for all homeless
The presentation of the cheque.
Catherine Langrishe and Rob
Gregoriou, Community Networks
Tony Skillen, the College Chaplain.
people, not just those who sleep
rough on London's streets. There are
families or single people people all
over the country who are just as
much in need."
The money which CathSoc has
raised will go a long way to help the
homeless. For example, £35 provides
a bedspace in an emergency Shelter
for one week, while £80 will train a
caseworker in the advice skills need-
ed to help homeless people.
Shelter receives nearly £82,000 in
donations from schools, colleges and
universities, but plan to launch a
major appeal to double the number
of individual sponsors.
P H O T O : A L E X
From left to right: Mark Wong,
Kingham from CathSoc, Maria
Fundraiser for Shelter and Father

