science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 28 September 2007
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
ESA’s taking a tilt at asteroids, not windmills. But the latter are more photogenic. Well, easier to find
Shooting down shooting stars
ESA, the European Space Agency, cer-
tainly can’t be accused of being faint-
hearted. The recent appearance of a
crater in the Peruvian Andes, widely
attributed to a meteorite, may at face
value seem to be an event so unusual as
to remain permanently in the “Acts of
God” category. Even if it turns out that
the crater, said to have emitted noxious
gases, was due to a meteorite, trying to
do something to prevent impacts may
seem to be a fool’s errand.
It could be argued that, laying fic-
tional concerns (Kryptonite) and solu-
tions (Bruce Willis and a large nuclear
weapon) aside, any realistic solution
would hardly come cheap, and would
use up valuable resources better
spent on dealing with more frequent
disasters.
But this down-to-earth (ahem) point
of view is a classic example of our
limited ability to deal with what Nas-
sim Nicholas Taleb has termed black
swans, in his recent book The Black
Swan: The Impact of the Highly Im-
probable. He takes the eponymous
fowl as a rather innocuous example
of our limited ability to deal with in-
frequent events – the European as-
sumption, based on experience, that all
swans were white seemed reasonable,
until the discovery of black swans in
Australia. (The pedants amongst you
can object that young swans are grey,
but if you’re going to get picky, we’re
prepared to argue at length that they’re
cygnets. And besides, you’re missing
the point. Concentrate.)
Taleb argues our assumption that life
never strays far from under the skirts
of the bell-curve extends far beyond
ornithology, and means we are un-
able to correctly assess the risks (or
benefits) presented by many unlikely
events, even if they have far-reaching
effects. Crashes in the stock-market
and best-sellers are two examples,
but so are meteorite impacts – argu-
ing that a meteorite impact powerful
enough to wipe out humanity is so un-
likely as to be negligible skirts over the
fact that, by definition, just one such
event would be enough – statistical
improbability is of cold comfort to an
astronomer with a “dinosaur-killer”
looming into sight.
Recent studies should limit such
nasty surprises, and help improve
Inspired by a wannabe Iberian knight, ESA takes a chivalrous approach to large lumps of space debris
our understanding of the statistics of
space debris. A worldwide network of
astronomers is cataloguing asteroids
with diameters above 1 km, and other
studies are planned, so that up to 90%
of all near Earth objects above 140 m
should be being monitored by 2020.
Edmund Henley
Science Editor
Improving our knowledge of the
threat presented by the smaller rocks is
not an easy task, as it is hard to moni-
tor their orbits (and hence predict their
trajectories) from the ground, and as
such they may represent a greater dan-
ger. However, we can take heart from
the fact that their size may make these
objects easier to deal with, if observa-
tions suggest any are likely to collide
with Earth.
This is all very well in theory, but
actually knocking a threatening as-
teroid off an impact trajectory is likely
to be significantly harder in practice,
especially without prior experience of
course alteration. Accordingly, ESA
has been planning a mission to do just
this, checking the effect present tech-
nology can have on an asteroid with a
diameter of about 500 m.
Dubbed Don Quijote, an appropri-
ate moniker given the approach the
agency is considering, the mission will
comprise two spacecraft, Sancho and
Hidalgo, and if approved, will launch
early in the next decade. Sancho would
arrive at the target asteroid first, after
travelling for a little over two years,
and would spend several months
monitoring the asteroid’s shape, posi-
tion, mass and gravity field.
Having taken a different orbit,
Hidalgo would arrive later, and would
use a high-resolution camera to steer
itself towards the asteroid, impacting
at a nippy 10 km/s. Sancho will record
any changes in the asteroid’s position
withahighdegreeofaccuracy,andwill
then release a small package of instru-
ments, which would passively free-fall
towards the crater left by Hidalgo, to
aid in determining the chemical, ther-
mal and mechanical characteristics of
the asteroid surface.
A number of asteroid are currently
contenders for the dubious honour of
a run-in with Hidalgo, but the front-
runner is Apophis, which caused
a scare in 2004, as initial measure-
ments suggested it might collide with
the Earth in 2036. Although this was
subsequently ruled out, the finding
served as a sobering reminder that as-
teroids present a danger which should
not be ignored, and which call for the
bold approach espoused by missions
such as Don Quijote. Taking a tilt at
an asteroid may seem an act worthy
of the Hidalgo himself, but the knowl-
edge gained may well prove invaluable
should a genuine threat arise.
At the end of their tether
In other space-related news, an experi-
ment on the ESA Foton-M3 mission
has had partial success in an attempt
to master technology just as significant
for space science as Don Quijote.
The €2.7 million Young Engineers’
Satellite 2, project (which went by the
go-getting acronym of YES2) involved
more than 450 students, who worked
on developing the 36 kg payload in
conjunction with Delta-Utec, the
prime contractor. The aim was to de-
ploy a 30 km tether from the satellite,
the longest ever used in space.
In theory, tethers present an attrac-
tive way of manœuvring payloads in
space. The most outlandish designs
call for thin ribbons built of very strong
materials, extending from a planet into
space. Known as beanstalks or space
elevators, these cables would allow
payloads to be lifted into orbit without
the use of rockets. Any giants (or Ver-
micious Knids) reading this can rest
assured that unfortunately, there are
several barriers to using these tether
applications on Earth.
However, their satellite-based cous-
ins look far more promising: as report-
ed in Nature News this week, payloads
on satellites can be returned to Earth
easily using tethers, as they allow the
payloads to be slowed sufficiently as
they are lowered, without the use of
retro-rockets.
To be light enough to be practical
(a key consideration in all space mis-
sions) the tether needs to be very thin,
requiring it to be made of very strong
material. The tether on YES2, a mere
0.6 mm thick, used a polyethylene fibre
called Dyneema, allowing it to weigh
in at only 5.5 kg, slightly lighter than
the 6 kg capsule and heat shield it was
returning to Earth.
According to the preliminary mis-
Cosmo Kray
Not quite the sort of tether and payload they had in mind
sion report on the YES2 website (www.
yes2.info), the first stage of the deploy-
ment went to plan: 3.4 km of tether
were released, with software exerting
considerable control on the deployer
mechanism, to keep tether oscillations
to within ~10o of the ideal vertical
position.
The problem occurred in the sec-
ond stage, as friction from unknown
sources caused the rate of deployment
to slow significantly, and led to 15-20o
oscillations before the preprogrammed
controls cut the tether. This meant that
in total, only 8.5 km of tether were re-
leased. Although this was short of the
target, the report concluded that the
operation was still a success: it repre-
sented the first tether flight for over a
decade, and achieved over half the mis-
sion goals. The team is currently look-
ing for the capsule, thought to have
landed in Kazakhstan, so as to improve
future mission analysis. Ask Borat?

