Email Nigel on advice@imperial.ac.uk
Email Kirsty on dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Welfare
Welfare Editors – Nigel Cooke and Kirsty Patterson
11
Friday 28 September 2007 felix
S
o, your back! You have a
house sorted with all your
pals, you have looked round
it; its not a bad property apart
from the dodgy sofa and the
dodgy boiler the landlord has said they
will sort out before you move in. So all
that’s left now is to organize the house
warming party.
What happens if you move in and
you find all is not what it seems. There
are damp patches everywhere, the
dodgy sofa remains in the front room
and the landlord has gone to Tasmania
for a month.
There are certain steps you can take
if your landlord has not done some-
thing they’ve promised, and similarly if
they are unwilling to carry out repairs
on the property. The Information and
Advice Centre (IAC) is here to help
with these problems.
If your landlord is refusing to do
certain repairs that are clearly their re-
sponsibility, the procedure is:
Phone the landlord or agent and
take it up with them directly – Tell
your landlord about the problem and
what you would like done about it.
Agree with the landlord when the work
will be done by, and what it will entail.
Put it in writing – If the repairs
Dealing with unhelpful landlords
W
elcome back! The
start of term is busy
for all of us, and
for most of us our
health is the last
thing on our mind… but there are a few
things happening at the Health Centre
which you need to know about…
Meningitis and Mumps – Free
vaccinations for under 25s
It is essential that all students have had
the appropriate vaccinations against
Meningitis C and mumps. These se-
rious infections are most common
amongst the student population. Vac-
cination is free up to 25 years of age.
Many students will not have had these
as they are not part of the standard
vaccination schedule, so check you’re
covered!
For more information on our vac-
cination programme visit www.im-
perialcollegehealthcentre.co.uk/
hvaccinations
Making Appointments On Line
I am pleased to introduce our new
system (catchily called EMIS Access)
which allows you to book and can-
cel appointments on line, and also to
keep your contact details up to date. To
register for this service please see our
website. Of course you can still come
in or ring us for an appointment.
Where has everybody gone?
We do not share any information you
give us with College. The reverse is
also true: we do not have access to any
information held about you by College.
This includes your contact details, so
if you have recently changed address
(or bought a new mobile) please let us
know. The best way to do this is online
(above) but you can also email us or
drop in to the Health Centre.
If you don’t tell us you’ve moved, we
will de-list you!
As you may know, we are soon to be
moving to our new premises in South-
If your landlord is refusing to repair something in your flat, be reasonable but don’t get taken advantage of
side (just round the corner). Due to
NHS administrative bureaucracy, we
may be forced to de-list you if we don’t
know your current address when we
move.
We want you!
Whether you are a fresher or not, we
are trying to encourage you to register
with us before you need us. Even if you
are “never ill” (and we hope you stay
that way) we want to know about you
David Hayton
IC Health Centre Assistant GP
so we are prepared – just in case one
day you are – and so that we can help
you stay well. Knowing who our pa-
tients are helps us to plan our services
to help you.
All students can use us during our
Take a moment to think about your health
are not carried out in the agreed time
frame then put the repairs you want
done in writing ensuring that you date
and sign the letter then send this to
your landlords or agents address.
If the landlord still doesn’t carry out
the repairs, it’s not advisable to with-
holdrentpayment.Doingthisputsyour
tenancy status at risk and you could be
served with an eviction order.
Sometimes it is a good idea to get
quotes for the repairs and say to the
landlord you will be sending them the
bill for the work carried out.
If the landlord still refuses then you
can contact your local council’s envi-
ronmental health officer who will ei-
ther come in and check the property or
will be able to give advice on how to
deal with the situation further.
It is important to put into context
what the repairs are, for example if it
is just a lightbulb that needs changing,
then don’t follow the above procedure,
change it yourself. Also be realistic
with how much time you give the land-
lord to do the repairs; 14 days is often
a good guideline unless it is something
urgent like a faulty gas boiler or your
heating isn’t working.
If you are not sure whether the re-
pairs that need to be carried out are
the landlord’s responsibility, it is best
to contact the IAC for further advice.
The IAC is here to help with any is-
sues you have with housing and we
can help not just with difficult land-
lords but also any other problems that
arise through privately renting. Enjoy
that housewarming!
Nigel Cooke
Student Adviser
opening hours regardless of where
they live.
For more information visit our
website www.imperialcollege-
healthcentre.co.uk
If you ever have personal issues, health problems, housing problems,
difficulties with your finances or anything else, feel free to contact
Nigel (advice@imperial.ac.uk) or Kirsty (dpew@imperial.ac.uk).
If your landlord refuses to replace the tatty old sofa in your flat, there are a number of steps you can take before the need for confrontation!
Check if you’ve had your Meningitis C and mumps vaccines! If not, they’re free. For more information, head to the IC Health Centre website

