12 felix Friday 28 September 2007
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A couple torn apart by social pressures but ultimately united by the passion of their love. Yesterday
Hey there, I’m a philistine!
D
on’t panic. You enrolled
in – or returned to – the
right University. We re-
ally are a Science college,
and generally you won’t
find an operetta, photograph or twirly
moustache in sight along the walkways
and in the lecture halls. Except maybe
Physics, where the face fuzz seems to
be popular. However, even the most
laboratory-bound student needs to
flex the other half of their brain from
time to time, and that’s where Felix
Arts comes in.
A new year, and a new editorial team
– so you can expect some changes to
the section if you’re not a Fresher. But
change is good: this week we’ve got
all of the usual coverage you’d expect
of the exibitions and events that are
hitting London soon, as well as some
brand new distractions, including Jane
Austen emasculating one of our man-
liest editors, a glimpse at one of the
biggest writing events you’ll ever en-
ter (and by god, you will enter it), and
the beginning of a multi-part series on
culture crawls and arty alternatives in
London – a great idea if you’re stuck
for something to do in between getting
drunk in the Union on a Friday night,
or recovering in the Union on a Sunday
morning.
To make Felix Arts a definitive source
for London culture, though, we’re go-
ing to need a crack team of writers.
Surviving on a gruelling mix of tickets
to press events of musicals and review
copies of the latest books, they’ll be
what fills these lovely pages week in,
week out, with anything and every-
thing creative. If you think you’d like
to review for us, write features or sim-
ply spew encouragement in electronic
form, the email address you need is at
the top of all of our pages. No experi-
ence necessary, bring your own twirly
moustache.
We want Felix Arts to be exactly what
Imperial wants to read, though, so even
if you’re not in the mood for putting
pen to paper in the name of art, email
us with criticism, suggestions and any-
thing you really want to see on these
here pages. Remember something
from last year that you miss? Bored to
death with features on a certain topic?
Get in touch.
In the meantime, you should prob-
ably kick back and enjoy the slow be-
ginning to another year of deadlines,
discovery and depression. Just try not
to forget, in between epsilon-n proofs
and aerodynamics theory, that once
upon a time you wrote English essays,
used the word ‘genre’ in sentences, and
sketched bowls of fruit. This year, we’re
going to get you creating again. And by
Christ, you’re going to enjoy it.
So flick through this first issue, email
your thoughts in, and go finger paint
something. We’ll see you next week.
This week, Michael Cook wrestles Jane Austen for his manliness – and loses
T
his year at Felix, we want
to get scientists reading
again. Not textbooks or
papers, but real things.
And no, Sudoku doesn’t
exactly count. We want you to pick
up books you never thought you’d
read and go cover-to-cover with them.
In our new section, we’re going to
run through some of the best-loved
and least-read literary masterpieces,
and tell you exactly why they deserve
reading.
Thanks to Waterstones at King’s
Road, we’ve also got copies of our
books to give away, too, so if you find
our reviewers are as convincing as they
hoped to be, there’s a chance to bag
yourself a copy for free each time, too.
This week, we cover Jane Austen’s
most famous social comedy, Pride and
Prejudice. If you’ve just discovered a
book that deserves it’s title of Classic,
then jot down some words and send
them into us – arts.felix@imperial.
ac.uk.
To win one of three copies of Pride
and Prejudices, courtesy of Water-
stones, just tell us what century the
book was first published in.
Either send an email to arts.felix@
imperial.ac.uk or drop in your answer
on a bit of paper to the Felix office –
downstairs in the Media Wing of Beit
Quad. Be sure to include your name
and some contact details – the closing
date for entries is October 10th, and
the winners will be announced in the
issue following.
I
t is a truth universally acknowl-
edged that a young man in pos-
session of a Jane Austen novel
must be in want of some extra
testosterone. There are books
about spies, there are books about men
punching other men, and then there
are Jane Austen novels. When they’re
split off for their sex education in pri-
mary school, boys don’t watch videos
about puberty – they get taught that
Tom Hanks is the devil incarnate, that
wearing socks with sandals is a divine
right, and that Jane Austen is for girls.
Here’s why, and for the gentlemen
reading, please stop me when you start
to feel the urge to crochet. Jane Austen’s
undeniably famous work, Pride and
Prejudice, is set in Hertfordshire and
chronicles the lives of the Bennett fam-
ily – the frumpy, class-obsessed Mrs.
Bennett, the dry but otherwise uncar-
ing Mr. Bennett, and their five daugh-
ters – and those that they know, both
locally and further afield. Beginning
with one of the most famous lines in
English literature, which I brutally tore
up in the opening of this article, the ar-
rival of a wealthy, single young man to
the neighbourhood starts off a chain of
events that leads to scandal, heaving
bosoms and mostly happy endings.
With books like Austen’s, what’s of-
ten hardest is to get around the age
of the piece. This sort of literature
was considered entertaining a couple
of centuries ago – but so were public
executions, and they’ve fallen way out
of style lately. Just because Austen un-
derstood the idea of a Novel well for
her time, does that mean she deserves
any credit on bookstore shelves these
days?
Well it turns out that, mostly, she
does. Pride and Prejudice isn’t a per-
fect read of course, at least not for
someone raised, as I was, on Douglas
Adams and that chap that wrote The
Hardy Boys series. Austen likes to de-
scribe events and then make you read
very long letters written about the
same events, and even for a romance
novel, conspicuously little happens
besides elopements and marriage pro-
posals. But you’re reading Austen, after
all, and so the trick is not to expect a
plot to murder the President, or an off-
the-wall parody of current events, but
instead to accept what she was trying
to do and really let yourself go in it.
If you can manage this, Pride and
Prejudice opens up completely. Some
of the characters can feel a little gener-
ic – although that’s possibly because
it’s such a real portrait of the time, and
so the fact that the men are almost
identical save their taste in women is
well-deserved – but most of them,
Elizabeth Bennett and Mr. Darcy in
particular, are well-rounded and enjoy-
able. Austen’s also incredibly quotable
for the most part, and her narrative has
a lot of subtle digs at the differences be-
tween the sexes. The play between the
five Bennett sisters creates some really
brilliant situations, and Austen clearly
enjoys painting pictures of the differ-
ent meanings of womanhood.
And so, yes. I ended up reading a
book about heaving bosoms, and wom-
anhood and things. There’s a slightly
dead patch where the plot seems to just
give in on itself from the sheer weight
of uneventful pages, but other than
that things really do seem to move. De-
spite the fact I’ve had no dreams since
of being proposed to by a tall, dark
Englishman, there is a sense of excite-
ment about the plans and schemes of
the characters and how strong a force
the social expectations exerted over
people who succumbed to them.
It’s not, in the main, an exciting book.
I feel honour bound to point this out to
anyone hoping for a no-holds-barred
kiss-fest set in steamy Hertfordshire.
But she does make something of it;
she’s able to show you why people read
Romance novels, and how people write
them. You can only use a cookie cut-
ter to produce things before it starts
to look a bit worn, but despite being
responsible for almost every film Co-
lin Firth has ever been in, Pride and
Prejudice works hard for a place on the
classics shelf. If you can bear with the
constant bantering, balls and British-
ness, you’ll find a really good read.
Five women walk into a bar, and the tallest goes up and orders an innuendo. The Barman gives her one
Michael Cook
Arts Editor

