14 felix Friday 28 September 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Facebook meets the social worker
Citizenship and Chatroom hit the National Theatre – Caz Knight was there to give the verdict on both
C
hatroom/Citizenship,
written by Enda Walsh
and Mark Ravenhill re-
spectively, are two short
plays exploring a vari-
ety of teenage issues. Performed at the
National Theatre on London’s South
Bank, the theatre shows over 18 plays
per year ranging from classics to new
plays.
With a view to understanding teen
culture Walsh gives us Chatroom: six
mid-teens in cyberspace, “middle class,
of varying wealth, in and around Chis-
wick”. What starts off as a snappy, wit-
ty, laugh-a-minute exchange of ideas
between members of the chatroom on
teen culture turns into a depraved view
at the sourest side of adolescence. That
does not detract in any way from the
profoundness and the issues explored
and the messages which the play seeks
to portray.
The play opens with a musical ex-
tract of the ‘Oompa-Lumpa’ song from
the much loved Willy Wonka and the
Chocolate Factory (1971) and a heated,
but highly amusing, discussion about
said film ensues, as well as banter con-
cerning “Harry fucking Potter” and
Britney Spears. The opening may lead
us to believe we were in for an evening
of no more than a few laughs at the
youth of today.
Introduce Jim, suicidal, troubled and
depressed following the flight of his
father 10 years earlier. The other teen-
agers quickly discover the cause they
have been looking for: to be there for
Jim. The sordidness quickly escalates
until the play deals with manipula-
tion and even the possibility of public
suicide.
Not only exploring some major is-
sues which a lot of the (predominantly
teenage) audience may be battling in
their own heads such as bullying and
teen angst, the play offers viewpoint
on other ideas such as the media itself
being a tool of manipulation, the safety
and authenticity of the internet and
religion.
Praise must be given for the truly
spectacular performance of Jim, car-
ried out by Steven Webb. Webb por-
trays the nervy, quirky, misfit with a
‘thing’ for penguins and cowboys flaw-
lessly and with hilarity. He is so con-
vincing that one finds oneself endeared
to him and his eccentric mannerisms.
George Rainsford, playing the part of
William, gives a comical if not slightly
boisterous performance but keeps the
audience laughing with his alternate
ending for Willy Wonka; “they make
shit out of him”. All the actors showed
talent and conviction in their roles
right up until the closing scene, proba-
bly one of the most emotive and happy
endings I have experienced in a stage
production which resumes the initial
mood of the play.
C
itizenship, also a foray
into the lives of contem-
porary teenagers, follows
16-year-old Tom and his
quest to find his feet with
regards to his sexuality. The opening
scene of Tom having his ear pierced by
Amy (after, of course, the mandatory
four neurofen and vodka that precedes
any do-it-yourself ear piercing) imme-
diately reflects the setting of the play,
which contrasts heavily to the middle-
class backdrop of Chatroom. The play
is set in a rather “ghetto” London com-
prehensive and one instantly recognis-
es the according uniform of tracksuit
bottoms, caps and baggy t-shirts.
Tom is highly confused about his
sexual orientation. This confusion is
brought about by a recurring dream
in which he is unaware of the gen-
der of the person he is kissing. Tom
seeks advice in differing ways from his
highly strung and stressed out Citizen-
ship teacher, the internet, a Tarot card
reader, his friend Amy and finally an
attached gay man who he met online.
These set of events lead Tom (and the
audience)tocontinuallyswingbetween
thinking he is straight and thinking he
is gay. In a moment of confusion he
and Amy sleep together which leads to
the inevitable pregnancy of Amy and
introduces the theme of parenthood
(highly reminiscent of the recently
released Knocked Up). A whole host
of different issues are explored in the
play which, as in Chatroom, are highly
relevant to both teenagers and adults
alike. The title ‘Citizenship’ refers to
the GCSE subject Tom is studying,
the title of which (“What a multicul-
tural society means to me”) could not
be more apt in British society today.
Drug use, teachers, peer pressure and
school are all topics which everyone
has had to contemplate and ensures a
fervent interest is kept in the play. The
director (Anna Mackmin) pays atten-
tion to small details which teenagers
would identify with such as Britney
Spears and Amy Winehouse ringtones,
myspace and two school children do-
ing ‘blow-back’ with a spliff.
Citizenship saw acting talent of high
calibre once more. Richard Demp-
sey carried out the role of “Sir”, Tom’s
young teacher who is constantly on
edge. Dempsey is extremely compe-
tent at portraying these qualities and
is successful in breaking the stere-
otypical view of teachers so common
in all types of media. Here, he is seen
as a real person with all kinds of their
own demons. Michelle Tate, as Amy,
earned a lot of laughs with her aggres-
siveness paired with her “therapy” bab-
ble. However, she does not quite pull
off the “sarf” London accent, occasion-
ally slipping into Aussie. George Rains-
borough showed variety in his acting
skills this time giving a side-splitting
performance as Gay Gary (highly
ironic), a stoner with an identity crisis.
Some of the characters seemed to be
slightly caricature but this only served
to reinforce the light-heartedness and
comedy. Slapstick humour, sexual in-
nuendoes and crude gestures aplenty,
this appealed to the younger viewers
and indeed any of us with an immature
side.
With a personal preference for the
unceasing, upbeat comedy in Citizen-
ship, both the plays have the audience
enthralled from the beginning until
the final applause. For the philistines
out there who find the idea of the thea-
tre daunting or boring, Chatroom/
Citizenship is an ideal transition into
the wonderful world of the stage and
guarantees a great time too. Currently
on your, if you miss it at the National
do try and catch it when it is showing
at any of the other cities within strik-
ing distance of London (Oxford, Cam-
bridge, Brighton amongst others). For
tour dates visit: www.nationaltheatre.
org.uk
The lighting and character arrangement is central to Chatroom’s conveyance of the e-generation vibe. It deals with the rather abstract setting cleverly and powerfully

