arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 28 September 2007 felix
Arts
Keeping up with the emperors
Caz Knight travels to the Olivier to see the latest in Voodoo theatre. But we can’t think of any puns
A
nother fantastic evening
out at one of London’s
most pleasant theatres,
the National theatre on
Southbank gives us The
Emperor Jones by Eugene O’Neill. This
play would have certainly had jaws
dropping and eyes widening at the
time O’Neill (an American favourite)
released it onto Broadway for the New
Yorkers and indeed those who flocked
(and still do) to one of the world’s lead-
ing theatre districts.
First performed in 1920, it saw the
first black actor on stage, performing
the lead role: of a leader. Certainly, this
reflected the pioneer within O’Neill
who would challenge political and ra-
cial assumptions in his work.
Although the play covers with the
way in which black people were treated
in 1920s America, racism is not a key
issue here. The themes of dictatorship
and tyrannical rule, leading to eventual
downfall are more prevalent. (O’Neill
wrote this play over a decade before
the rule of Hitler and Stalin came to
power).
The play follows the self-proclaimed
Emperor Brutus Jones (“stowaway to
emperor in two years!”) and his own
tyrannical rule over the people of Hai-
ti, after his escape from the States fol-
lowing the murder of a prison guard.
Brutus’ own self-importance blinds
him to the hatred which is people feel
towards him.
Paterson Joseph undoubtedly stole
both the stage and the whole show
in his captivating portrayal of Brutus
Jones. What Joseph gives us is a com-
pletely convincing and highly comical
interpretation of the self-important
and cocky stowaway-turned-emperor.
The deep-south accent and Negro
dialect (which at times becomes slight-
ly “gospel”) is pulled off flawlessly and
unfalteringly. Joseph has us laughing
throughout the play at Brutus’ antics
and witty banter, and also rigid in our
seats as we take on his fear and desper-
ation listening to his manic ramblings
during his voodoo encounter.
We can only wonder at how Joseph
maintains such vigour and energy in
his role. One finds oneself growing
very attached to Brutus as we share in
his journey, feeling sadness and dis-
tress throughout his ordeal and final
capture.
Huge praise must go to the direc-
tor, Thea Sharrock and indeed the set
designers, musicians and light techni-
cians without which this mesmerizing
Thought about outdoor sports?
Got a sense of adventure?
Find us & our free climbing wall all day in Beit Quad at the
freshers fair.
UNDERWATER CLUB
Imperial College Trust has been supporting worthwhile activities within the College since its establishment in
1968. The activities of the Trust are funded by donations and by the careful stewardship of existing
resources and the Trustees meet on a quarterly basis to consider grant applications from members of the
College. In recent years, the Trust has made a significant grant to the Imperial College Union to support the
refurbishment of Beit Quad and has also made a number of smaller grants to clubs and to individuals.
Funded by ICU Recreational Clubs & IC Trust
www.union.ic.ac.uk/rcc
ICU Recreational Clubs &
Unsettling even to watch, the visual effect of The Emperor Jones is undeniably impressive, made all the better by brilliant performances
production would neither have been
possible nor so potent. Nothing could
have created the illusion of voodoo
magick better than the spectacular
drumming which really brought chills
own ones spine.
Another highlight of the production
would have to be the pyrotechnics fol-
lowed by the witch doctors impressive
and slightly frightening display. The
play certainly has a sinister and highly
surreal- even “trippy” – edge to it and
at times one felt as if we had stumbled
in on an experimental theatre produc-
tion which only furthered enjoyment
and added depth.
Right up until the last deafening
drumbeat, the audience is left spell-
bound as if, indeed, under some voo-
doo spell. Certainly one of the most
powerful pieces of theatre I have ex-
perienced, those lucky enough to have
seen it are truly blown away. The sev-
enty minutes zoomed by and I urge
ALL to go see it as soon as possible.
The Emperor Jones runs until 31st
October.

