16 felix Friday 28 September 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Culture Crawl
Victoria & Albert Museum,
Cromwell Road
South Kensington’s museum of design houses collections from around the world and throughout history. Think
ceramics, furniture, fashion, glass, jewellery, metalwork, photographs, sculpture, textiles and paintings. Some ex-
hibits are a bit dated, but it is nothing a good bout of government funding won’t heal. Apart from that, it is really
worth a visit during those long lunch breaks. Go on – free yourself from the JCR!
Best bits:
The Jameel Gallery is a real gem. The Islamic Middle East collection has been lovingly relocated to this very at-
mospheric and beautiful gallery, thanks to some very rich and generous people. It really does credit to the objects
displayed which originate from areas stretching from Andalucian Spain all the way to the northern reaches of
Uzbekistan. A highlight is the the oldest carpet in existance which lies in state here (non-flying).
For all you cross-dressers out there, The British Galleries will be of great interest. There are several ‘hands-on’
exhibits which involve putting on hoop skirts and corsets on for fun and admiring your changed appearence in
handy mirrors.
A sparkly-new exhibition, ‘The Golden Age of Couture’ has just opened. See our review in this issue for more
information.
The Natural History Museum,
Cromwell Road
Difficult to miss if you’ve ever approached Imperial from the South Kensington tube, this magnifi-
cent building dominates Cromwell Road and even loops around to rub shoulders with the Science
Museum. If you want a definitive exhibited history of this planet, it’s all under one roof. Its prox-
imity to the college is fortunate, because this’ll take you some time to get around fully.
Best bits:
Go in the main entrance (on Cromwell Road) and the first thing you’ll see is the museum’s most
popular resident – the enormous dinosaur skeleton that dominates the entire main atrium. But
that’s not all there is to offer – in every direction the museum plunges into the history of animals,
nature and even humankind itself.
Be sure to explore towards the back of the museum, where a massive escalator will take you up
to an earthquake simulation room, which is great fun as long as no-one’s watching, and continues
on to explore natural disasters and the escalating issue of our climate. It’s Climate Change Season
at the museum at the moment, which means the exhibitions all have a global warming twist, but
keep an eye on the banners outside, as the museum’s fantastic lineup is constantly changing.
The Science Museum,
Exhibition Road
Originally founded in 1857 to house all the leftover bits from the Great Exhbition at Crystal Palace, our
most local museum is now a showroom of scientific artefacts from throughout history. For us scientists,
it is a brilliant resource for background info on how science and technology has evolved through the
ages. The museum has some suprising annexes too: The Dana Centre on Queens Gate is a cafebar venue
for over-18’s and hosts debates almost every night of the week about contemporary science and culture.
Coming up is an evening with James Watson, the one who also disovered DNA. Cool.
Best bits:
They are just renovating the Launchpad which is the biggest hands-on exhibit in the place. This means
lots of big buttons to press and disapproving looks from onlooking parents as you push small children out
of the way in order to get a go.
Also coming up is a unique exhibiiton by celebrated film maker, Grace Weir and explores our scientific
measurement of time, black holes and Einstein’s theories of relativity.
Chapter One – Museums

