arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 28 September 2007 felix
Arts
British Museum,
Great Russell Street
This humungous building houses thousands upon tens of thousands of antiquities that the British Empire
stole from such cultures as the Ancient Greeks, Egyptians, Persians and others. It is a wonderful, varied
and very extensive collection. Make a long day of it.
Best Bits:
The Egypt Galleries are a definate highlight and the Rosetta Stone has been famously on display since it’s
‘discovery’ in 1802 and was most recently translated by Rachel Weisz in The Mummy Returns: a cinematic
masterpiece.
The famous Reading Room in the centre of the Great Court in the museum, which has the dubious
papier-mache dome and entertained those well-known bookworms Oscar Wilde and Karl Marx, has been
expertly transformed temporarily into a tomb-like exhibition room to tell the story of the First Emperor
of China, Qin Shihuangdi. He was an inspiring man – he buried the architects of tomb alive with him and
created the Terracotta Army, some of which are on view at this must-see exhibition. You can see these war-
riors (all 8,099 of which are different) eye-to-eye which is quite humbling seeing as they are over 2000 years
old and still seem as though they could beat you in a fight.
The National Cartoon Museum,
Little Russell Street
Are cartoons for kids? Yes. Are you over thirty-five with a mortgage and misgivings about
young people? No. So you’re well within the age range to have some fun here. Students go
free, and there’s a lot of cartoons that vary from political to slightly less serious – though fans
of Mickey Mouse might be disappointed. Well worth a look on your way back from The Brit-
ish Museum, which is just down the road.
Best bits: A huge archive of Punch comics, showcasing very definite styles of political satire
– you might not get most (or even all) of them, but the visuals make it as appealing as a visit
to the V&A. They also run classes both over the Summer and during term-time, so if you’re
bored of labwork and want to get out the colouring pencils again, it might be a good place
to head for.
Just around the corner from the museum is the Gosh Comics store, which will serve your
needs for anything more modern, too.
Design Museum, Shad Thames
A good 10 minutes walk across the river from Tower Hill lies a small, pretentious museum
which charges you to see what is ultimately on display in the V&A shop. With a heavy em-
phasis on modern designers and up-and-coming talent, it has some nice, open design spaces.
Not one for agrophobics.
Best bits:
If you’re after freebies, the museum is currently playing host to London Design Festival
until the 14th October featuring several Designers in Residence of the Design Museum. If
you have a free day, Sarah van Gameren’s Big Dipper, to be installed in the Riverside Hall,
mechanically creating 24 candle wax chandeliers by dipping strings of wick in heated wax
and allowing a frame to build up over a period of 12 hours, inviting the viewer to witness the
birth of a product: the Design Museums’ equivalent of watching paint dry in slo-mo.
Next Week – Theatres
The Imperial War Museum,
Lambeth Road
Within walking distance of Waterloo station, the Imperial War Museum is a frightening collection of exhibits from
numerous wars, including some particularly impressive collections of Second World War pieces. Large, but absorbing,
the IWM also has some seasonal exhibits on – currently, a display of camouflage and it’s effect on warfare.
Best bits:
There are a few unbelievable pieces hiding away in the museum – hunt out the replica of Little Boy, the nuclear bomb
that fell on Hiroshima, as well as the bronze eagle that was taken from the top of the Reichstag in Berlin, bullet holes
and all.
The Secret Agency exhibit is mostly entertaining, but the end is particularly good, showcasing a lot of recent events
and asking some interesting questions. But for hard-hitting, you can’t beat the photography on display in the Second
World War sections. Incredibly moving images, presented in a thoughtful manner – well worth tracking down.
Written and designed by Rosie Grayburn

