18 felix Friday 28 September 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Dressmaking on stilts at the V&A
David Paw rubs shoulder pads with the highest of society to spy on the latest haute couture exhibition
J
usttoclarify–couture?Theword
inspires everything from hushed
awe to vague mutters of appreci-
ation, to confused squeals of en-
thusiasm from pink velour-clad
plastics. Couture is the French term for
“dressmaking”, and haute means “high”.
Hence, the literal translation of haute
couture is “high dressmaking”, in the
same way the microscopic portions in
your local Michelin-starred restaurant
are referred to as “haute cuisine”.
Haute couture is the pinnacle, the
absolute peak of creative expression
through the medium of dress (gents –
the equivalent of a bespoke Savile Row
three-piece with matching shoes, only
at least three times more expensive
and ten times more coveted). Haute
couture combines untempered artistic
flair with made-to-measure precision.
Commissioned by the wealthiest of
patrons and created by only the most
skilled designers and their ateliers
(workshops), couture is regarded as
much as collectors items and museum-
worthy pieces as clothes. Dolce & Gab-
bana? Not even close.
Even your relatively average couture
gown would put all but the most spe-
cial of wedding dresses in the shade
– the most extravagant and elegant sit
comfortably alongside the private jet
and Lamborghini on the wishlists of
fashionistas and romantics the world
over.
Thus, to the V&A’s autumn exhibi-
tion. The Golden Age examines in de-
tail the period after the Second World
War when Christian Dior introduced
the now-legendary New Look, Cristo-
bal Balenciaga reopened his doors
and the stellar talents of Hubert de
Givenchy and Pierre Balmain rose to
prominence.
The period is regarded as one of the
most glamorous and remarkable in
fashion history, not only for the ex-
traordinary bloom of creativity that
took place, but also for Dior’s revolu-
tionising of the industry and the swan-
song of an era that ended with the six-
ties and the advent of a mass market
more directed to teenagers and prêt-a-
porter (ready to wear).
The period and the New Look
(rounded shoulders, nipped-in waist
expanding into dramatically long and
wide skirts) also saw a return to ethe-
real glamour and luxury after the aus-
terity of the war.
95% of the exhibition is from the
V&A’s remarkable archives, but is
also notable in that it includes origi-
nal pieces from Dior’s first collection
and the painstakingly restored Zemire
ensemble, which was previously only
known to editors and researchers
through photographs and recently re-
discovered in a building on the banks
of the Seine.
Stepping through the hushed spaces
resplendent with the quiet stir of ar-
chive footage, it feels more like witness-
ing a private labour of love than waltz-
ing through an exhibition. A room is
dedicated to the process of creating a
couture gown, from the preparatory
sketches and material samples right
down to the accessories and finished
product; one could spend hours in this
room alone.
Another is given over to the ima-
gemakers favoured by the emerging
international press, namely familiar
publications like Vogue and Harpers.
Where previously illustrations had
been used, photographers such as Ri-
chard Avedon and Cecil Beaton domi-
nated during the postwar years as the
medium had a modernity that editors
favoured.
The trend of showing the “face” as
opposed to the whole figure emerged
during this time as large cosmetics ad-
vertisers such as Elizabeth Arden be-
gan to take more space in the increas-
ingly influential fashion press.
Lovers of all things Audrey Hep-
burn will be glad to know her favoured
couturier is well represented – show-
stopping Givenchy couture dresses are
amongst the best of the entire exhibi-
tion – and a reel shows film footage of
famous film fashion moments, includ-
ing the aforementioned Ms. Hepburn’s
Parisian romp in Funny Face.
Most dramatic of all though is a
room dedicated to the most achingly
beautiful couture of the whole collec-
tion; the wealth of beauty on display
here is worth the admission alone.
Pieces from familiar names such as
Dior, Balenciaga and Givenchy stand
alongside those from the less familiar
such as Fath, Lelong and Schiaparelli.
All are stunning.
The exhibition returns us round into
the present with a timeline dating the
emergence of major players and the
establishment of the regulatory Cham-
bre Syndicale, ending with three pieces
from the most dramatic couturier of
the present day, Dior’s John Galliano.
Though the couture from British
dressmakers such as Hardy Amies is
worthy in itself as to compete with
their contemporaries on the continent,
the vast majority will come to see the
well-known names, though even the
most avid couture fan will have some-
thing to learn.
The breadth and depth of research
and effort that has gone into this ex-
hibition is obvious and it shows – The
Golden Age is a fitting tribute to a dy-
ing craft.
Sublime.
David asked to try this on, but they said they weren’t big on that.

