25
Friday 28 September 2007 felix
Competition time!
Thanks to the courthouse fire that de-
stroyed his birth certificate, no one’s
really sure of Mr Jack’s exact birthday.
All we know is that it was sometime in
September 1850. Which is why we cel-
ebrate all September long, culminating
in a spectacular Birthday JD Set gig at
the distillery.
Just 200 people are invited – you and
a friend could be amongst the lucky
few to attend this one off gig which will
take place at the oldest registered dis-
tillery in the United States where every
drop of Jack Daniel’s is made.
A stellar line up of rock artists in-
cluding the legendary Patti Smith,
alongside Juliette Lewis from The
Licks and Shingai from The Noisettes,
will give a once-in-a-lifetime perform-
ance backed by the New Silver Cornet
Band, a group of local session musi-
cians. This band includes David Hood
and Craig Kampf who have played with
legends like Primal Scream and the
Rolling Stones.
One winner and a friend will fly to
the Jack Daniel’s homeland for an in-
credible rock and roll weekend with
flights and accommodation included.
Birthday celebrations will include an
authentic, southern style BBQ and a
personal tour of the distillery followed
by the main event, the Birthday JD Set,
where the celebrations really begin.
For further information on Jack’s
birthday go to:
www.septemberisjacksbirthday.com
Make Mr Jack’s birthday a memora-
ble one. Please drink responsibly.
To enter the competition simply
email your name, proof of age,
address and telephone number
to felix@imperial.ac.uk with the
subject “Mr. Jack’s birthday prize
draw”.
Entries must be received by 10am
on Monday 1st October. You must
be 21 or over and hold a valid UK
passport. Proof of age should be
in the form of a driver’s license or
Win a once in a lifetime trip to the Birthday JD Set in
Lynchburg, Tennessee. Entries by 10am Monday, so be quick!
BROWN-FORMAN BEVERAGES UK, LTD
THE BIRTHDAY JD SET
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The promotion is open to UK residents aged
21 or over only excluding employees of the
promoter, Felix, their families, agents and anyone
else connected with the promotion. No purchase
necessary. To enter, email in your name, proof of
age, address and telephone number to: felix@
imperial.ac.uk, with the subject: “Mr. Jack’s
birthday prize draw”, to be received no later
than October 1st. Only one entry per person.
The promoter accepts no responsibility for any
illegible entries or those which are delayed or not
delivered. Proof of posting is not proof of delivery.
There is one prize: a 2-day trip for the prizewinner
and a guest to Lynchburg, Tennessee to enjoy
the Jack Daniel’s birthday celebrations. The prize
includes return flights from London to Nashville
departing on 12th October and returning on 14th
October to arrive in London on 15th October; 4
star hotel accommodation in Nashville to include
breakfast for two nights; return ground transfers
from Nashville airport to the hotel; tour of the Jack
Daniel¹s distillery; evening meal on Saturday 13th
October; free attendance to the birthday JD set on
Saturday 13th October with transport to and from
hotel. The performance line up may be subject to
change. The promoter will book and pay for each
prize as agent for the prizewinner and their guest,
who agree to be bound by any terms imposed by
third parties including, without limitation, any relevant
tour operator. The prizewinner and guest must hold
valid UK passports and will be responsible for any
administration associated with the prize including
without limitation, any immigration requirements
for entry into the USA. All additional expenses
including, without limitation, spending money, travel
to and from Gatwick Airport and any additional
insurance cover, if required, are the responsibility of
the prizewinner. The prizewinner and their guest will
need to confirm they are over 21 before taking up
the prize. The promoter reserves the right to select
an alternative winner, should the original winner and
guest not validate their identity, age or compliance
with us immigration requirements for entry into the
USA within 24 hours of notification. The prize draw
will be supervised by an independent person and will
take place on October 1st. The prizewinner will be
the first name drawn at random from all valid entries.
The prizewinner will be notified within 24 hours
and receive further details of their prize within
2 days of verification of their age, as required
above. The winners’ details can be obtained for
6 weeks only by sending an sae to “Jack Daniel’s
/ Felix, birthday JD set prize draw”, Spring PR,
301 b/c Aberdeen House, 22-24 Aberdeen Grove,
London N5 2EA. The prizewinner and guest may
be required to participate in future publicity. Each
prize is as stated, is non-transferable and there is
no cash alternative. The promoter reserves the
right to withdraw or amend this promotion in the
event of any unforeseen circumstances outside its
reasonable control with no liability to any entrants,
the prizewinner or any third party. The promoter
also reserves the right to award an alternative prize
of equal or greater value, should the advertised
prize become unavailable for any reason. The
decision of the promoter in all matters is final and
no correspondence will be entered into. Entrants
are deemed to have accepted these terms and
conditions by participating in this promotion.
Promoter: Brown-Forman Beverages Europe,
Ltd, Regent Arcade House, 19-25 Argyll Street,
London, W1f 7TS. Know when to unplug. Enjoy
Jack Daniel’s responsibly.
passport photocopy. Alternatively,
you can come to the Felix office on
Friday afternoon or Monday morn-
ing with proof. The editor promises
not to give out any of your personal
details.
Good luck!
Calling all postgraduates…
E
EDITORIAL AND PROOFREADING
SERVICES AVAILABLE
E
Are you unsure about your English language skills? Would
your thesis or dissertation benefit from proofreading,
editing and/or sensitive rewriting?
Contact Jenny Kingsley, experienced editor with an academic
background, for help and peace of mind. Reasonable rates.
Your work is more likely to be appreciated if you express
yourself in a clear and concise manner.
To celebrate the autumn launch of
Greggs best ever Cheese and Onion
Pasty, Greggs the bakers is giving Im-
perial College students the chance to
try one of the Pastytastic savouries*
– for free! Just cut this coupon out
and take it to your nearest Greggs.
With the winter nights drawing in
there’s nothing more satisfying than
a delicious, freshly baked Greggs
pasty or Sausage Roll. With choices
such as the Steak Bake, Chicken
Bake, Cheese and Onion Pasty and
the Sausage and Bean Melt, custom-
ers really are spoilt for choice.
The new cheddary gorgeous
Cheese and Onion Pasty boasts ma-
ture cheddar cheese, wrapped in a
light golden pastry and contains no
artificial colours, flavours or hydro-
genated fats.
Greggs pasties and sausage rolls
are freshly baked in-store through-
out the day, so you can guarantee
a fresh and tasty treat will be ready
when you are!
For more information about
Greggs visit www.greggsthebakers.
co.uk
Terms and Conditions:
Offer subject to availability. Not to be used
in conjunction with any other offer. Limit of
one coupon redeemable per visit. Coupon
is valid until 12/10/07. No cash alterative
offer available. Coupon will be retained. No
photocopies accepted.
*The Pastytastic savouries include Sausage
Roll, Steak Bake, Chicken Bake, Cheese and
Onion Pasty and Sausage and Bean Melt.
Free Greggs savoury for every student!

