Paul Banks from Interpol, playing an early evening slot on the mainstage. Kings of Leon guitarist, giving the gladeye
Reading Festival vs. Pukkelpop
Felix braves eight-hundred miles of driving and two major festivals to investigate rumours telling of
cheap entry, decent line-ups, good food and campsites not made up of mountains of festering rubbish
Honey Munroe (Photos by
Greg Mead and M-A)
With similar line-ups and just a week
apart, both are loveable and fabulous
in their own right, but this year Felix
went the whole hog and bowled into
Europe just in time for one of Belgium’s
largest music festivals, Pukkelpop, and
then ambled back in time for British
summer’s last hurrah at Reading Festi-
val. You could be forgiven for thinking
of Pukkelpop as Reading and Leeds’
younger though physically bigger
cousin, but I have a feeling if you scaled
Reading Festival up the same capac-
ity many might not survive to tell the
tale! Reading held 80,000 people where
Pukkelpop had 130,000 and 194 bands!
Yet there is something about the slop-
ing intimacy of the Reading site that
makes it seem absolutely overflowing
with people as well as bigger than it ac-
tually is while somehow though larger,
the layout of the Pukkelpop site was
such that it did not seem the 10acres
bigger and the stages always seemed
moderately packed but not rammed.
For those of you who do not know
anything about Pukkelpop, the Belgian
festival began life with one stage host-
ing seven bands and just three thou-
sand people on a football pitch in 1985.
From humble beginnings to having
seen almost all major names in alterna-
tive rock of the past twenty years, the
festival has been going from strength
to strength with a burgeoning dance
presence in the last decade. This year
of 2007 saw The Smashing Pumpkins
reunite to headline almost all major
summer festivals worldwide, making
their third appearance at Pukkelpop
since 1993.
The main site of the Festival is pretty
huge and very heavily sponsored. Mo-
bile phone banners and Coca Cola em-
blems are everywhere but at least it is
on the whole tastefully done. A lot of
time, money and effort has obviously
gone into not only the organization but
also the construction of the site. The
stages are huge and the tents are enor-
mous and boast sound quality you can
only dream of experiencing back home.
The Dance tent was the most awe in-
spiring thing, as big as an actual club
back home in London and fully fitted
with screens at intervals that dropped
down along the ceiling and the most
incredible scalectrix track of moving
green LED lights above you this was
perfectly designed and certainly the
most ubertastic dance tent I have ever
been in at a festival. The second dance
arena was almost as big, an actual tent
with funnelled tops and an impressive-
ly and decorated inside with enormous
glass baulbauls splattered with random
coloured paint markings and balloons
hanging form the top.
The attention given to the dance
areas clearly mimics the popularity
of dance music and I have to admit it
seemed if not the most popular genre,
as popular as the rock music side of
things. It makes Reading’s dance stage
look like a muddy tent in someone’s
back garden by comparison and really
made me think how shameful it is that
after all this time Reading and Leeds
have not revamped their tents, or at
least invested in some really well laid
ones with decent flooring which could
transform the atmosphere entirely.
The Campsite was situated on a mas-
sive area of fields that had been trans-
formed, for the duration of the festival,
into sea of tents. You had to physically
leave the festival site and cross a busy
main road to get there, but Police were
on hand at all times to halt traffic at in-
tervals allowing a safe passage to and
from your tent. This minor inconven-
ience was soon forgotten once inside
the camping area however. Ample
space was kept ordered with many a
steward directing campers into spots
so that the site would fill evenly and
leaving clear pathways for access to the
well thought out cleaning areas and
well as slightly less frequently placed
toilets. There was a large shower facil-
ity, with even larger queues, and on the
opposite side an area designated for
hanging out and cooking.
The fields were in better condi-
tion generally than those at Reading,
with good drainage, and much more
thought had been given to the welfare
of campers in terms of how easy it was
to keep clean, access chill out areas and
cooking facilities.
It is also worth knowing that Pukkel-
pop made no separation between
guests, press or regular punters when
it came to camping, and any fears we
had about being kept awake all night
by ignominious drunk revellers were
quashed once inside where the Euro-
peans were all fairly civilized and well
behaved by far.
Although we did not have photo
clearance for Pukkelpop, we were able
to use the media facilities and the press
area was pretty full although seemingly
pretty lackluster.
Like other European festivals the
site runs on a token system for food
and drink and prices, although reason-
able, were in no way cheap. The token
system meant that service was fast but
I didn’t find the choice inspired nor
particularly appetizing on the whole,
believe it or not British festival fare,
especially at Reading, has become in-
creasingly specialized and gourmet
over the years. That said, you would
not starve: watery burgers with onions,
hot dogs, chips, Vietnamese spring
rolls and big pitta kebabs abounded,
but it wasn’t the home made burgers
and hog roasts or Thai chicken curry
chips I had been used to at Reading.
There was also no area of stalls like
at Reading, although really apart form
general mementos and knickknacks I
doubt you are missing much but most
of Camden’s rejects and old army sur-
plus or hippie tie dye anyway.
The Belgian’s are obviously a mod-
erate and subdued bunch, probably a
lot to do with the fact that their drink-
ing culture is founded on sociability
and based around half pints of readily
available delicious beer you want to sa-
vour, not a Carling in sight, and glass-
es of generally fine standard French
wine. There were no bars selling spirit
drinks at the festival for example, and
admittedly this meant festival goers
“The Smashing
Pumpkins reunite
to headline
almost all
major summer
festivals”
“The most
incredible giant
scalectrix track
of moving LED
lights”
Kings of Leon
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 28 September 2007
Music Feature
Editor – Greg Mead

