were on the whole more sober, but I
was irked as I can drink neither wine
nor beer and feel that should I wish to
drink spirits I am responsible enough
to decide how much I can drink be-
fore becoming a threat to society. I
also believe people should always be
given a choice, as one can always use
proportional pricing to guide buying
toward the favoured option anyway.
This particularly European attitude
to sociable drinking translates to very
amicable people and the crowds were
enthused and happy enough, certainly
polite and well spaced, with none of
the moshing or crowd surfing you find
at similar British festivals. If you want
to get right to the front of any stage, it
is as surprisingly easy as just weaving
your way over there and people gener-
ally tended to move around a lot from
stage to stage rather than camp out in
one place to keep their spot or to see
the whole line-up at one tent or stage.
This fluidity was wonderful and meant
you didn’t feel pressured to rush to
each band if times clashed as you knew
you would be able to view the bands as
comfortably from the beginning as ar-
riving mid way through.
Bands received attentive though un-
derwhelming reactions from the crowd
and it was somehow rather deflating to
be around people who appear so utterly
unfussy over what they are experienc-
ing. Just one example would be watch-
ing The Kings Of Leon who were on at
mid-afternoon at Pukkelpop and for
whom there was a modest crowd who
sang along and bopped a bit I the sun-
shine to their set. Cue reading, where
they co-headlined the main stage to a
packed and eager audience Pukkelpop
I was able to get right to middle of the
front barrier of the main stage for the
Saturday night headliners The Smash-
ing Pumpkins during the changeover
from the previous band, something I
could only dream of doing had I been
glued there to the barrier staking out
my space form about early afternoon
at Reading
The one thing I did find slightly be-
musing and overall a tad exasperat-
ing was the lack of joy and excitement
there was for the bands. For as annoy-
ing as being crushed to death at your
favourite band is, or not being able to
get within 50 yards of a stage or even
inside a tent, it undeniably lends each
experience with a feeling of passion
and of uniqueness, of being present for
a life changing event , something eve-
rybody around you is just as fired up
and desperate for as you.
On the whole the one place where
Reading really surpasses Pukkelpop, is
in atmosphere. Love it or hate it, the
British music fan’s unswerving passion
for whatever genre of music has won
their heart is unbeatable. Nothing gives
you the same feeling of having been to
a life-changingly awesome gig as being
there with 60,000 people all screaming
for more along with you.
Less homogeneous and with far more
hard core music fans, Reading’s punt-
ers can be in some way sorted into the
pre-university set, the musos, the rock-
ers and the festival diehards. Indeed,
the festival was packed as ever and full
of kids who don’t look old enough to
get into most gigs, mostly just fresh
form GCSEs or A-levels and absolutely
ready for the action and the next big
thing. Musically, this means they were
all trying to get into the Carling Stage
when Kate Nash played, and it was so
full you could hardly see the stage, let
alone get within 50 feet of the tent. Tea
cloth scarf wearing boys swung from
the tent ropes vying for a better look
and groups of girls in threes giggled
and waved the flags that had been stra-
Raise your hands if you can see the sun
“Bands that
were good at
Pukkelpop blew
your mind at
Reading”
tegically left around. The mood was
happy and like most of her songs, tri-
umphant. It’s a slice of ‘the kid’s’ world,
but it was not thankfully, the main vibe
and trend permeating the festival
Bands that had been good at Pukkel-
pop just blew your mind at Reading.
Nine Inch Nails were tremendous and
the Pumpkins set and light show was a
real spectacle. The artists feed off the
crowd and that in itself helps make
the shows so good. This year Read-
ing did it’s best to be as music forward
as possible and featured a new stage,
The Alternative Stage, which took
over the Comedy Tent on the Satur-
day night from about 7pm. The Stage
was curated by Transgressive Records,
a small yet mighty force in new indie
music right now. Bands from their la-
bel as well as peers in the audio visual
world gave the modest but eager crowd
who made it over a feast for the eyes
and ears. Jeremy Warmsley, Battle and
played with Three Caged Tigers being
a top highlight of the evening. Read-
ing Festival will always have a place in
my heart as it took my festival virginity
and has delivered me some of the most
rocking moments in my band loving
and gig watching life. Pukkelpop was
a fantastic voyage into a world of su-
per awesome festival sound and clean
camping. But the dirt and the grime
and the down right rock and roll wins
every time... Long Live Reading!
Billy Corgan of Smashing Pumpkins and Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails, shortly before destroying the stage
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 28 September 2007 felix
Music

