Gregory Mead
Nightlife Editor
H
ello! And welcome to
Imperial College if
you’re a new fresher,
and congratulations on
not failing all your ex-
ams if you’re a returning student. My
many regular readers will know that
this page is the place to come if you’re
interested in a great night out, so I sug-
gest you cast an eye over them, if you’re
new, I’ll introduce myself. I’m Greg,
your friendly nightlife editor. I make
these beautiful pages you are stroking
with your eyes, if you cast your eyes
upwards, that’s a photo of me. Regu-
lar readers will notice it’s not my usual
picture so feel free to cut it out to add
to your collection/pin board/wallet.
Now, those who are new to London
I suggest you don’t go straight out and
take a load of drugs and rave for the
next six weeks. I’m going to take a U-
turn on my usual jaded opinion of the
Union and suggest that you check out
as many freshers events as you can.
Even if you think they are a bit cheesy
for your tastes, they are a really great
way of making new friends, and are
much more suitable for chatting about
what A levels you took, what school
you went to and why you didn’t choose
Oxbridge than a pumping 3000 capac-
ity club miles away from College.
Anyway, enough with the patronis-
ing. Once you’ve settled in, made some
friends you’ll be ready to go out and
sample the delights of London, and
there are lots. Read our wonderful arti-
cle to the right for some starting points,
and check out our regular page for re-
views, interviews and previews on all
things nightlife. You could always enter
our regular competitions for a chance
to win a free night out!
Now all I need to say, is enjoy fresh-
ers week and good luck for this year.
Reach for the lasers, it’s time to rave. Make the most of it before you die from your extreme workload
Welcome to London, newbies
Since you may have just joined IC, and
not be from London, or even from
the UK, then we’ve been kind enough
to write a little list of club nights we
might visit throughout the week, ei-
ther because they are good or cheap.
Either way, I suggest that if you don’t
like Indie or Electro then destroy this
article now.
Monday
It’s the start of the week, so what bet-
ter day to start your week of excess, we
suggest DURRR at The End, run by the
lovely ex Trash DJs (Where Erol Alkan
made his name) Here, you’ll hear a de-
lightful mix of post-punk, old (real) in-
die and pumping hard electro. You will
be swiftly removed from the queue un-
less your clothes and musical taste are
up to standard (fashion show Indie).
Tuesday
Ignore that hangover from last night,
and make your way over to The Roxy
on Rathbone Place for Panic! a perfect
student type Indie/Electro night sure
to please all but the most snobbish of
you with £1.50 drinks all night.
Wednesday
Venture over to Notting Hill for Death
Disco, with Dan McGee at the Notting
Hill Arts Club, get there before 8pm
and you’ll get in for free, which coin-
cides with the start of happy hour. Ex-
pect to hear an eclectic mix of Indie,
Post-Punk, and a bit of Electro. They
also have live bands.
Thursday
Get over to Candybox at Moonlight-
ing, if you fancy a horrible night of In-
die cheese. The questionable choice of
music is balanced by the £1.00 house
spirit and mixers, so turn up with £20
and leave totally wasted.
Friday
You absolutely must go to And Did We
Mention Our Disco (See article below)
at Hub Club in East London, simply
the coolest electro/disco party in town,
they regular host nights with the likes
of Justice, 2ManyDJs, Headman, Erol
Alkan and many many more. Hub club
is a London Met student bar, so the
drinks are very cheap too. Get there
early.
Saturday
Afterskool, the best student Indie
Congratulations, you’ve moved into what is arguably the best city in the universe for
clubbing, music and general nocturnal activities, so here are some suggestions
club night in London, hosted at LSE’s
student union is a great option, the
DJ’s are good and the drinks are quite
cheap. Other options include irregular
club nights at The Barfly (live bands)
and maybe something good at the Un-
ion, if you’re very very lucky.
Sunday
Sleep, or do some work (hah!).
If these suggestions don’t tickle your
fancy, then have a look at our won-
derful list of competition prizes we’ve
got to giveaway on the next page, they
could give you some inspiration.
We suggest though, that you go out
and explore this wonderful town, who
knows, you may discover something
Gregory Mead
that nobody else knows, such as the
most awesome club in the world. Grab
some flyers on a night out, that’ll give
you some ideas. Around Old Street,
in East London is a great place to find
up and coming events, it’s packed full
of cool cafes and bars with millions of
flyers on display, they play good music
and are a great place to hang out before
heading off for a heavy night out on the
town.
If you’re into extreme raving till your
brain explodes of lack of water/over-
heating/other, then warehouse parties
are probably your thing, look out in Fe-
lix for previews of the our favourites,
they are a great night out, and usually
allow you to bring your own drinks!
Now go forth, and party.
Our Disco is back. Again!
Our Disco is back! No, we don’t mean
Our Disco, we mean And Did We
Mention Our Disco, also briefly known
as And We Didn’t Mention Our Disco.
Confused? Good, now pay attention.
This was literally the best club night
in the entire world (along with Bugged
Out) before it was savagely kicked out
of it’s long standing home at Plastic
People.
It made a few awesome appearances
at Canvas and it has now settled into a
new home at Hub Club in East London,
boasting an awesome sound system, ul-
tra cheap booze and a constantly great
lineup, you couldn’t ask for anything
more on a Friday night.
Regular readers of Felix Nightlife are
probably getting bored of us going on
about this place, but we don’t care be-
cause we’re the editors and we decide
what goes in, not you!
Make sure you get there early for a
big name night, it always sells out fast.
Check out www.ourdisco.com for fur-
ther information and lineups.
Nightlife needs you!
Felix Nightlife needs new writers and
an assistant editor!
If you want free entry to clubs and
events in London, and are capable
of stringing a few words together in
English, then you can be a reviewer
or editor! No experience is needed
to join. Just email us or visit Felix at
Freshers’ Fair.
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Here is a lovely photo we took at a previous Our Disco. Isn’t it nice?
28
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix Friday 28 September 2007
Nightlife
Nightlife Editor – Greg Mead

