Is all gloom doom?
From the moment you get into Feel-
ing Gloomy club night at the Carling
Islington Academy you know that, as
famously over quoted by the Labour
Party, things can only get better. And
that means that however pissed off,
heartbroken, broke or just generally
pissed off you feel it wont be long be-
fore you have drowned your sorrows
in some cheap vodka Red Bull and are
ready to get over to the dance floor and
throw some crazy shapes.
Be careful on entering to tell the girl
at the box office which night you have
come for as the Academy also hosts a
cheesy Essex girls and hen party filled
night called Le Grande Fromage, and
to be honest, if you felt your life was in
the gutter you’d be wishing it was over
if you chanced to find yourself in that
room.
Feeling Gloomy is anything but a
dour night out and I have to say, in a
modern world where more and more
frighteningly I leave indie establish-
ments on their regular indie nights
thinking I may just have left a twilight
zone version of Top of The Pops, the
sound track is genuinely indie alterna-
tive and full of people who genuinely
love indie alternative and rock and roll.
Not to say there isn’t a decent smat-
tering of the greatest hits of new rave
and electro, but they are kept in their
place by DJ’s Leanord and Cliff who re-
ally know how to get the audience to
party and enjoy themselves. This place
has no shame, because as Beth Ditto
recently told a London crowd at The
Forum, there is no shame in having a
good time tonight.
So you won’t find girls and guys that
are all hair, bright tights, tight jeans and
big shoes standing around and looking
cool, but you will find the coolest mot-
ley crew of music lovers letting their
hair down to forget their troubles and
really move to their favourite tunes. I
went with my sister to the club night’s
2nd birthday and there was cake and
nibbles, a fun loving crowd, an air gui-
tar band ‘The Miserablists’ and free
T-shirts for everyone at the end of the
night. We danced and we laughed and
we did air guitar, chatted to some nice
people, some drunk people, some very
random people and danced with who-
ever was shakin’ their thing our way. It
was probably the most fun I have had
in ages and the least self-conscious or
overly self aware place, great for people
like me who rarely get up and dance so
readily.
The Bar Academy, where the night
lends itself really well to the vibe, being
small enough to get to know people’s
faces over the night and get from the
dance floor to smoking area round the
back without too much strife. Not too
hot and not too long a wait at the bar
and the toilets were clean enough. And
not a bad price at £5 entry for students
on the door and £3.50 in advance
online.
Plus, on most nights they have ‘Speed
Hating’ where you can rant for three
minutes to someone you have just met
in return for listening to their rants af-
terwards. Perfect.
If you are looking for a place to kick
loose, jump around to The Smiths and
Pulp, scream along to Total Eclipse of
The Heart and the like, then this really
is for you.
If these days it seems we are all meant
to feel grateful rave has been so colour-
fullyrevivedandeverybodyaroundyou
seems to be underage or to have fallen
out of a box of Hoxton lookalikes, then
salvation is close at hand .
Saturdays at the Academy we thank
God for Rock and Roll and reasons to
feel less gloomy .
Competitions galore
Oh my freaking God look at the
prizes we’ve got for you this week!
You’d better enter, I had to do un-
speakable things to get hold of
these.
Simply email us saying which prize
you would like, and why!
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fabric Week!
Two double passes over 3 nights for a spe-
cial Fabric week in October. You’ll see LCD
Soundsystem playing a special DJ set on
Thursday October 25, True Playaz night on
the Friday (26th), and then the usual Fabric
stylings on the Saturday the 27th. See
www.fabriclondon.com for more info.
Album Launch at The End
One double pass for the Layo & Bushwacka!
album launch and the Will Saul Simple
Sounds mix launch, both on Saturday 6th
October, PLUS a copy of each album! See
article for more info.
Halloween at Turnmills
One double pass for The Synergy Project at
SeOne on Friday 5th October. A huge event,
over nine rooms, you’ll hear Psytrance, IDM,
Hi-NRG, and all other forms of electronic mu-
sic as well as spectacular visuals and even
cakes. See website for more information:
www.thesynergyproject.org
The Synergy Project
Three double passes for the Together Hal-
loween fancy dress special at Turnmills with
Groove Junkies, SebastiAn and more on
Saturday 27th October.
One double pass on Friday 28th September
for ALWAYZ FRYDAZE at Egg Club. Listen to
club and funky house all night long.
Egg Club
Album launches galore
The End goes mad and hosts two album launches at once. Layo
& Bushwacka! and Will Saul take over next Saturday
Changes are afoot at Olmeto. Layo
& Bushwacka!’s superb monthly party
is The End’s flagship Saturday night,
and throughout 2007, Olmeto has set
aside AKA for the sumptuous sounds
of Will Saul and his label Simple
Records. However, from September
onwards, they mix things up with Will
and guests taking care of The End’s
lounge, whilst Layo & Bushwacka!
continue to flex their muscles in the
main room. Into AKA goes Freerange,
a label much loved by both the Olmeto
and Simple chiefs. Freerange head
honcho Jimpster will be bringing his
label’s deep and melodic sounds, plus
specially selected guests, to AKA each
and every month.
After a month bedding into the
new format, October’s Olmeto takes
on special significance with the night
acting as a vehicle to launch not one,
but two major albums. First up in the
main room, Layo & Bushwacka! will be
marking the release of their first mix
album in nearly four years. Global
Underground – champions of the mix
album format with a back catalogue
that reads like a DJ Allstars list – have
bestowed the honour of mixing the lat-
est instalment, ‘Global Underound Rio’,
upon the pair. As with all GU albums,
it’s a two-disc affair, and as with their
last mix album ‘All Night Long’, the
boys wanted to represent both the old
and the new. CD1 represents the finest
music of the past 20 years with many
personal favourites from the likes of El-
lis D, Francois K and Lil’ Louis, whilst
CD2 covers the very best of their cur-
rent sets, taking in tracks from cutting
edge talent such as Phonique, Tiga, Guy
Gerber and Henrik Schwartz. Joining
Layo & Bushwacka! in the main room
is one of Germany’s most exciting new
talents, Daso, who will be performing
one of his wild live shows.
What do you do when you fall in love? How about when you lose
your job, your boyfriend and your house? Feeling Gloomy?
Man dies of Nu-Rave poisoning
Here they are, waiting to pleasure your aural system
Honey Monroe
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 28 September 2007 felix
Nightlife

