news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 28 September 2007 felix
News
Meanwhile in the Union...
Southside “far exceeded our expectations”
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
Left, the main stairwell in the Falmouth-Keogh hall’s entrance. The stair rails contain lights to help intoxicated students clamber the steps back
to their rooms. Right, one of the controversial “restricted view” rooms. The portacabins will remain in view until Eastside is finished in 2009
Communal kitchens are shared between a maximum of 24 students.
Kitchens come equipped with recyclable waste cupboards and energy
saving lights activated via infra-red when someone enters the room
Shock! Horror! The Sabbatical Officers were caught doing work,
and at the weekend. The ICU President Steve Brown (top) and
Deputy President (Education & Welfare) Kirsty Patterson (bottom)
were part of a team repainting dB’s. Instead of paying contractors
£3,500 to begin the refurbishment, the Sabbatical Officers decided
to take a more pro-active approach and save the Union some
money in the process. Hopefully by Freshers’ Week dB’s will house
some cosy sofas and be serving some tasty breakfast food.
The new Southside halls were handed
over by contractors to College ear-
lier this week. Wardens have already
moved in, along with the “re-apps” (re-
applicants, or students who have been
granted another year in halls but in
return they have to help out with run-
ning the residence) before around 400
freshers descend upon Southside this
weekend.
On wednesday morning Felix was
lucky enough to be given a tour of
Southside, namely the Falmouth-Ke-
ogh hall. The other two halls are also
named after the previous Southside
block – Selkirk hall and Tizard hall.
Together, the three halls fall under the
umbrella name of Southside. Felix met
with Falmouth-Keogh warden Dan
Read, who would be our guide on the
tour.
Students gain access through the
main entrance door via the RFID chip
in their College ID card. Keys to rooms
are also a thing of the past in Southside,
however they are still required to ac-
cess some things such as the mailboxes.
Similar RFID security is in place when
gaining access to students’ rooms, cre-
ating even more incentive for students
not to lose their College ID cards un-
less they want to spend a night sleep-
ing on the hard kitchen floors.
After passing through the main doors
of the entrance, you are immediately
swamped with bright red colour. It is
stylishly lit with lights set into the floor
and even the stair rail.
Felix was then taken to the fourth
floor. Stepping out of the lift, it was ap-
parent that the hallways are vast, po-
tentially raising the question whether
this space could (or should) have been
used to make the bedrooms larger.
Felix was shown a single en-suite
room facing south. Each room comes
with the standard items a resident
would expect. There are tall, glass
panelled doors that stretch from the
floor to the ceiling allowing in plenty
of light. The doors are locked however,
preventing students from accessing the
faux-balconies, presumably to prevent
people from leaping to their death.
The next destination of Felix’s whis-
tle-stop tour took us to one of the com-
munal kitchens. Brushed metal is the
order of the day here. The kitchens are
designed to hold a maximum of 24 stu-
dents. Aside from the usual lockable
cupboards and various kitchen appli-
ances, Southside halls have a specific
area for recyclable waste. The kitchens
are also fitted with infra-red lights that
turn on and off depending whether
someone is in the room. College has
obviously been thinking green and
whilst the kitchens may look the part,
the old fashioned induction cooker
hobs seem greatly misplaced in an oth-
erwise very modern building.
Next up, Felix was shown one of the
en-suite bedrooms facing north: the
side with the much discussed view of
the portacabins next door. The porta-
cabins are in place until building work
on Eastside is completed in 2009. Stu-
dents assigned rooms with a restricted
view have been given a £5.00 per week
reduction on their rent, taking the
cost of a single en-suite room down to
£150.61. Over the course of a 38-week
contract this equates to a £190.00 dis-
count. The decision to reduce the cost
of the affected rooms was made earlier
in the month after negotiations be-
tween College’s Commercial Services
department and the Union, namely
Kirsty Patterson (Deputy President
Education and Welfare).
The views from the north side are
certainly restricted, but plenty of light
still fills the rooms. With the window
open, the drilling of noisy builders
could be heard but when shut, the
double glazing was effective enough to
ensure near silence.
Falmouth-Keogh is the westernmost
hallandunfortunatelyFelixcouldn’tget
access into Selkirk or Tizard on the day.
This meant we weren’t able to compare
the portacabin view with views over
the Eastside building site itself. If there
was anything sinister going on in the
other halls, it will become apparent in
the coming weeks. Perhaps Felix was
lucky in being spared the sight of some
impressive builders’ bums.
Finally we were shown a twin room
and also a twin disabled room. The
rooms differ in size depending on
their location in the building and in
this reporter’s view the twin room we
were shown seemed too small for two
people. The pair of desks were situated
side-by-side which seemed a bit too
close for comfort and privacy. How-
ever, the twin disabled room was vast
with a huge, fully equipped bathroom
designed for wheelchair users. Pillows
that vibrate during a fire alarm are also
available for the hard of hearing.
From what we were shown, South-
side looks good and far exceeded our
expectations. Our tour was only of the
Falmouth-Keogh hall so Felix was not
in a position to search every nook and
cranny of Southside, so our trip may
have left a few stones unturned. The
main areas that we weren’t allowed into
are the unfinished areas, most notably
the social room. Falmouth-Keogh, Sel-
kirk and Tizard will each have their
own common rooms and additionally
there will be a larger social room capa-
ble of holding all of the students from
one of the sub-halls. The social room
will not be finished when the freshers
arrive this weekend. College has said
that it will be finished during October.
Students lucky enough to get a place
in Southside will be living in luxury ac-
commodation. Whether £155.61 per
week is too much for a single en-suite
room in Southside is open to debate.

