film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
31
Friday 28 September 2007 felix
What’s that coming over the hill? It’s no Monster
Where a movie star begins and ends
Most Hollywood actors are the same
nowadays, right? Big bucks, tonnes
of fame, good physiques, on occa-
sion even talent – all the prerequisites
needed to be a “star”. But of course,
stars shine up on the sky only because
light is shed upon them and while we
may still see them during clear nights,
they might have actually died out years
ago. The question is, what can an actor
do to redeem himself from the infec-
tious disease called Hollywood and its
utterly commercial aspects before it’s
too late?
Charlize Theron is just one of sev-
eral examples which show how being
a Hollywood star must not necessarily
imply that you have to sell out on all
your values.
Born 1975 and raised in a small farm
community in South Africa, Theron’s
childhood automatically sets her apart
from most Hollywood actors. Beside
the fact that she was born in a coun-
try where a profound humane crisis
was taking place, Theron witnessed
her father’s death at the hands of her
mother – in self defence – at the age of
fifteen. Just one year later, she moved
out on her own to pursue a modelling
career in Milan. A trip to the US and
several painstaking years into the fu-
ture, Theron is discovered by an agent
while yelling her lungs out at a bank in
Los Angeles.
The year 1996 marked her first major
role in a film co-starring James Spader,
Two Days in the Valley, a rather ludi-
crous but fun picture about money,
murder and vendettas. In years to
come, Theron kept being type-cast
as the beautiful, bitter/sweet blonde
who always managed to get herself (or
someone else) into trouble.
Of course, Hollywood only acknowl-
edged her work once she did a com-
plete makeover of herself for Monster
(2003), a performance which saw her
garner not only heaps of praise, but
also an Academy Award for Best Lead-
ing Actress (she was nominated again
for North Country, in 2005). You might
think at this point that perhaps it was
time for Miss Theron to more carefully
choose the films she accepts to star in
and it would only make sense, after
she herself said in an interview some-
thing along the lines that ‘she’d never
be able to go back to doing something
ordinary again’ after the experience of
making Monster. Aeon Flux and Head
in the Clouds, two films extremely dif-
ferent in most regards, but similar in
terms of cinematic experience (unsat-
isfying, to say the least) came as quite a
blow to both Theron’s own words and
most people’s expectations.
Yet, it would be erroneous to say
nothing has changed. The roles taken
up in North Country, Monster, even
Head in the Clouds, show a penchant
for deeper, more complicated and in
the same time more heroic characters,
for people who stand out in an adverse
society. Theron just recently produced
a film called East of Havana, a docu-
mentary about three young rappers in
Cuba, and her next three pictures are
themed around human drama (Ferris
Wheel, In the Valley of Elah) or social
activists (Battle in Seattle). The fact
that she’s signed on for the sequel to
The Italian Job only shows that, in the
end, it’s still Charlize Theron we’re
talking about, an adventurous, beauti-
ful woman of the 21st century.
So what does it take to gain immu-
nity from the Hollywood virus? Well,
it takes self-consciousness, and while
most stars nowadays go for a “greener”
lifestyle and mime social awareness,
it’s still rare to find someone who ac-
tually looks at the world and aims to
become an integral part of it. Charlize
Theron, although she’s still got a long
road ahead, is venturing herself in be-
coming more than just a product in the
film industry.
Stefan Carpanu goes in search of something beyond a star to explore the great charm of Charlize Theron
Much more than just a Flighty Tart
She’s back and she’s black, but does Angelina still have the acting chops to pull off Mariane Pearl’s story?
A year ago, this was perhaps the most
talked about film going into produc-
tion but now that it’s finally released,
it has slipped under the radar a bit.
Whether it was controversy over An-
gelina being “blacked up” to play mixed
race Mariane Pearl or whether it was
the world shifting into its orbit around,
eugh, Brangelina, early pictures were
everywhere and the focus was imme-
diately taken from the powerful true
life story itself.
In a move so typical of the celebrity
worshipping world of today, Angelina’s
story grabbed the limelight while the
courageous story of Mariane Pearl
whose husband, journalist Daniel Pearl
was captured and beheaded by a Paki-
stani militant group, was pushed to the
back. Months on and Brad and Ange-
lina are old news while their take (with
Brad as producer) on the Pearls’ story
gets a chance to shine. But the main
problem is the film doesn’t fit well in
the cinema mould.
It’s a deeply personal story, one
Alex Casey
Film Editor
woman’s struggle to find her husband
in Karachi whilst heavily pregnant and
is based on Mariane’s memoirs of the
tragic events. Here the story is out of
Mariane’s hands and, whilst dealt with
skillfully, doesn’t quite keep an audi-
ence hooked for the running time.
The problem with taking such a re-
cent story is the intrusiveness of the
whole thing makes an audience feel
like uncomfortable voyeurs and whilst
Mariane is not one-dimensional, the
story is fundamentally hopeless and
would better suit a documentary than
a dramatisation.
Saying that, were it not for the dram-
atisation, it would be without Ange-
lina’s performance which should quiet-
en critics and replace “actress” on her
CV alongside “publicly vilified scarlet
woman”. Her accent holds up and her
performance is not based in tears and
dramatics like it could have easily been
directed. She plays a stronger woman
than that and does so with convction,
whether or not it was right to cast her
when many mixed race actresses would
have killed for a role like this. The fact
that boyfriend Brad was producing
doesn’t imply a large search went on
for the best actress for the role but it
would have been much easier to bring
the race card down had she not carried
it off. As it stands however, Jolie seems
capable of getting that edge back, and
with her turn in Beowulf approaching
it’s hard to see her signing on for Tomb
Raider 3.
A Mighty Heart ★★✫✫✫
Director: Michael Winterbottom
Writers: John Orloff, Marianne
Pearl
Cast: Angelina Jolie, Archie
Panjabi
Jolie goes back to school and learns how to act again...

