Beware The Jabberwock, My Son
R
eprogramming – alright,
hacking – is something of
a joy for me in Bioshock.
It’s simple why – no mat-
ter what flavour of hell is
breaking loose around me, hacking
brings everything to a standstill, and
propels the players into something
reminiscent of the Amiga classic Pipe-
Mania. You move some tiles around,
the flow of electricity is rerouted
around the machine, and the puzzle
gets solved. Deep breaths. You’re back
in the room.
So I leave from hacking my latest
conquest beaming, the soft green light
and gentle whirring being roughly as
close as I can get to an actual friend
out here in the godforsaken medical
asylumn I’m wading through. I notice
some bandages lying on the floor, and
my health’s a little low. Instinctively,
I’m down on the ground scratching
for them. But there’s a second packet
just on from that – maybe someone
dropped it. Or... dropped it.
It doesn’t matter, it’s all useful – I’m
pciking it up as I see the third packet.
Somewhere in the space between the
monitor and my left hand, I remember
every episode of Tom and Jerry I ever
watched. But by the time I remember
what happens to the hapless cat, the
door slams behind me, and there’s a
burst of frothy, white steam. Every-
thing goes pale, I’m blind, and on both
sides of the game something screams.
I don’t play a lot of ‘scary’ games. I
played the FEAR demo and enjoyed
the atmosphere enough, but Half-Life
2’s Ravenholm section was mostly
charged through, shouting loudly,
and the less said about my progress
through Doom III, the better. That’s
partly because I like to think, and I
like to shoot, and the aforementioned
screaming tends to distract me from
these things. But it’s also because hor-
ror has become manufactured in a lot
of ‘scary’ games. Ravenholm was a city
of zombies. That was about as clever
as the fear got. And Doom’s ingenuity
stops short of the main menu screen.
Bioshock’s slickness of presentation,
and brightness of concept, drew me to
purchase it. But in truth, I knew noth-
ing about the game. It’s setting sound-
ed dark enough, but I was completely
unprepared for how much it tried to
scare the player. Somewhere between
the brutal murders and drug abuse,
I realised this wasn’t going to be all
sunshine and frolicking. It was going
to be the other thing. Tortured botox
patients and demonic little girls with
hypodermic needles.
But Bioshock’s horror is different. It’s
more natural. It’s more subtle. After
the steam clears, only two things have
changed in the room – which turns out
to be a dentist’s office – that I notice
from before. The first is that a small
red box has been placed on a desk. It’s
a diary entry, and it’s next to the genet-
ic power-up I came for. The diary en-
tries – a trademark of Ken Levine, who
Michael Cook goes in search of shadows, splicers and scares in Bioshock – and likes what he finds
designed both Thief and System Shock
2 – are left by many of Bioshock’s in-
habitants. My favourite – Tenenbaum
– records her discovery of the tech-
nology that now powers both mine
and others’ amazing ‘gift’. Other diary
entries show you the slow degradation
of life in the underwater metropolis of
Rapture. Some chart the destruction
of lives. Failed experiments, broken
dreams and occasional flashes of gory
fates. They keep you alert, make sure
you’re never fully settled. The white
noise of terror. The background hum
of pant-wetting. Even when I’m hack-
ing, they’re still playing on.
The second item that’s appeared in
the room is a corpse on the dentist’s
chair. It’s charred, bloody, and looking
a little depressed. Instinctively, I set it
alight, leaping around and shouting.
But whoever it was, they weren’t in a
position to complain. And being burnt
alive was probably a preferable fate to
the death they received anyhow.
I rush over and play the recording.
Some doctor is discussing the ethics of
his work – something of a thorny dis-
cussion, and I later find “First, do no
harm” written in blood on the floor.
Just as he gets around to talking about
art, or flesh, or something, there’s a
hiss of gas and suddenly I’m sucking
white again.
But this time, nothing happens. So
when the mist clears, I pick up the
Plasmid cannister – a powerup for
my crazed abilities – and turn around,
flexing my muscles and fingering the
trigger to my shotgun. As it turned out,
I chose the right weapon.
The key is the setting. We’re in a city.
Admittedly, it’s an underwater city
populated by crazed, pipe-wielding
psychopaths, genetic freaks and Irish-
men. And its moral code read likes
Beezlebub’s own suggestion box. But
it’s still a working city, with real peo-
ple that have desires and needs, mostly
revolving around getting out or surviv-
ing. You’re all trapped in Rapture – the
will to survive grips the player just as
tightly as any of the AI, and so the fear
you have of the shadows is twinned
with your own exploitation of them.
The horror of gene harvesting is mir-
rored by your own quest for the fuel
that powers you.
It’s clever, and it’s exciting – the
fear is a two-way construct. For the
first time I can remember, I’m not be-
ing put onto a fairground ghost ride.
I’m not being told there’s scary things
ahead. My level of control over the
situation determines the balance of the
fear. Sometimes it’s in my favour. As I
spin around to come face to face with a
scalpel-wielding surgeon three inches
from my face, I realise that now is not
one of those times. The trigger snaps
close, and the crazed knife jockey gives
the room a much needed splash of col-
our. I try to think of a quip, but nothing
comes – no-one’s going to hear it but
the turrets anyway.
I have high hopes for the future of
Horror in videogames, and Bioshock is
one of the reasons for it. It doesn’t need
to jump out at you, but it will. It will
do a lot of things, if they’re necessary
to scare the crap out you. But these
things are always – always – second-
ary to what the player wants to do. He
wants to play. The game builds itself
around me, and that’s the way it should
be. Long after the Orange Box is re-
leased, soon now, we’ll get a chance to
play Valve’s Left 4 Dead, a co-op ‘Zom-
bie Sim’ with a director that tweaks the
level to keep the players on their toes.
That’s the source of truly terrifying
gaming. Not from forcing the player
to crawl along the floor, whacking on
some violins, and setting off a jack-in-
the-box in their face. But from giving
the player free rein, and having them
know that, however they play, the
game will come. And the game will
find a way to frighten.
Now there’s a scary thought.
New look centrefolds for 2007! Steampunk! Divers! Thinly-veiled Freudian-esque paedophilia! Ban this sick filth now at onlyajoke.felix@ic.ac.uk
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
35
Friday 28 September 2007 felix
Games

