sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
42 Friday 28 September 2007
felix
Sport
Fiona Jamieson
Hockey club success on Cyprus tour
party was to celebrate the two Rich’s
degree results. The acclimatisation
continued the following day with some
of us hitting the beach and others play-
ing mini-golf, we were trying our hard-
est to take in the local culture! We tried
our hand at beach volleyball but were
rubbish and when swimming in the
sea both Chaz and Ellie stepped on sea
urchins. Already we had candidates for
the muppet award!
The evening took a slightly differ-
ent course than predicted as whilst
playing a game, Chaz managed to hit
a rock and get a huge gash in his foot.
After much struggling we dragged him
to hospital for five stitches. Maybe not
the best start to the tour! So whilst the
others enjoyed the first of the karaoke
nights, three of us waited in hospital
while Jack and Sammy had an evening
out with their water pistols for com-
fort. Whilst Mary, Bacon and Doug
had been in a bar open until 6am, the
rest of us played buckaroo with Harry;
we managed to tie his hands and feet
together, put a boat, a wig, Willy, pom-
poms and an entire goalkeepers kit on
him before he woke!
Finally on the Wednesday we man-
aged our first game, with Ollie as
captain, against Styx, a British Army
team. We got off to a shaky start, with
the Styx scoring within the first two
minutes. I think we were all strug-
gling with the heat, and that includes
the cripple crew who, thanks to Chaz’s
injury, had grown to three, however
this may have been because Sammy
and Fi undertook an alternative warm
up; 8 drinks from a man who looked
like Howard the Halifax man. But how
could we resist at a pound a drink?
And anyway, Sammy’s cheerleading
was much improved by it! Team tactics
changed throughout the match and
it was decided that we should change
from playing rolling subs to swapping
the entire team, leading to a little rival-
ry between team A and team B. This
caught the opposition off guard and
allowed Kavit to show us that he de-
serves to be promoted into the 2s next
season as he was a little running, scor-
ing machine. The final score was 7-5 to
IC, our first win on tour in three years!
The goal scorers were Kavit with 3 and
Jack, Bacon, Rob and Andreas with one
each. Man of the Match had to go to
Kavit for his amazing goal scoring and
Dick of the Day went to Chaz for be-
ing a completely useless umpire. We
headed back and quickly had our fines
circle before splitting into two groups.
One lot were going for an “early night”
and ended up staying up til 4am playing
naked cards. Mary was sober for these
frivolities and the quote of the night
came from her “I’m naked, I’m sober,
give me a beer!”. The rest of us head-
ed out into Agia Napa. We started in
Bedrock where we were joined by the
army guys. Francis tried his hardest to
chat up the blonde from the opposition
only to find that she had taken more of
a liking to Fi than to him! Moving on
from there we worked our way down
the road to Senior Frogs where we met
a family from Doncaster out with their
12 year old kids at 2am! Jack caused Fi
to have sticky tits and Ellie once again
claimed to have perfect breasts. This
saw us on our way to River Reggae, an
outdoor club with a pool, surely mix-
ing alcohol and water was not the best
of ideas? Anyway no one had come in
their swim stuff so underwear it was!
The fun continued ‘til the sun came up
when we left to go to bed and the army
guys left to go to work! It was here that
the sharking really started.
The R&R after our first match was
spent at Europe’s largest water park.
This was what Myra had been wait-
ing for. It was a great day out and once
again the lurid green t-shirts proved
useful as your could see us from the top
of the rides! You were also able to hear
Myra’s screams all round the park; who
knew someone so small could make so
much noise?! The evenings entertain-
ments were provided by House Blackie
and their karaoke attempts. Fi ran the
bus many times, much to Mary’s dis-
appointment, and Francis once again
proved why he deserved his title as he
stropped when playing cards, prob-
ably still devastated because the pretty
blonde turned him down.
We left Agia Napa to move onto the
capital Nicosia. We sampled local cul-
ture by going to the north of the island.
Not only is it occupied by Turkey, but
we discovered that the beer was much
cheaper too. That went down well as
there were more exam results being
collected that day.
The mixed tournament we were
due to play was cancelled due to the
extreme heat, so instead we played
against the English School, ESOBGA;
Andreas’ and Alex’s old school. The
match got off to a much better start
than the last one, maybe because James
lead us in dynamic stretches. However
the final score to this was only 2-1, both
goals again being scored by Kavit. Man
of the Match was originally awarded
to Shiv but, as she didn’t actually play
that well, Fine Master over-ruled this
and it went to both Myra and Sarah
for their great defending. Dick of the
Day went to Richard Francis for play-
ing air hockey and completely missing
the ball in the D and hence missing out
on a goal. Special mention has to go to
Luke who decided to take the keeper
on and managed to floor him, and also
managed to get a fairly impressive war
wound to show for it.
As it is so hot in the capital the lo-
cals retreat to the coast, which is what
we did. Alex arranged a fantastic boat
party for us so after sampling the local
equivalent of McDonalds, we headed
aboard the boat. We set sail into the
Mediterranean Sea and partied hard.
The best dancing must go to Sarah
who danced like a loon with the glow-
sticks and her and Sammy managed to
break a bench by getting a little car-
ried away. Apparently Alex proposed
to Sammy too, but I missed that one,
possibly because Harry spent about 10
minutes trying to persuade me to put a
glow-stick down my throat. She didn’t.
The freshers couldn’t stand the pace
with Kavit, Mala and Sammy all taking
naps at the end. Though Sammy may
have been faking and just using it to get
close to Ollie. More sharking?
After a collective 50 hours sleep be-
tween us all, we turned up to the match
on the Sunday a little worse for wear.
Everyone was tired, apart from An-
dreas who had been boring and not
come to the party. This match was
against the Lions, who had just won
the league, they were to be our tough-
est opponents and it happened to be
when we were at our worst, but we put
up a fight. If we hadn’t been so tired/
hung-over and if the umpires didn’t
need to run off for a TC, we could have
done better, but the final score was 3-6
with Kavit once again proving his scor-
ing abilities by getting two and Jack got
the other. Man of the Match went to
Luke for being one of the few people
that could actually run and having far
too much enthusiasm considering how
little sleep we’d had. Dick of the Day
went once again to Francis, apparently
for playing badly, but he claimed it was
all Mary’s fault. I think someone is in
denial.
The post match celebrations were
falling asleep and were a little lame
compared to normal. The evening saw
another fines circle in which we were
the first to the pub at 9pm. We also
managed to find another IC student
hidden away in there.
The final leg of our tour took us to
Limassol, once again on the coast of
the island. On Tuesday it was Ollie’s
birthday, so we started off with some
culture and went to an ancient amphi-
theatre, it was there that Jack had an
unfortunate incident with a hole. This
was followed by a trip to the beach
which proved to be the perfect warm
up for our last match.
Our final match was against another
British Army team, this time the Ex-
iles. This was an important match; all
three injured members were allowed
to be on the pitch, making sure that
everyone had actually played on tour.
Kavit once again got the game going by
getting us off the score sheet. Fi came
on the pitch to goal hang and managed
to set up a goal for Mala. In the second
half Sammy took over the goal hang-
ing and Chaz also made it onto pitch.
Bacon, Andreas and Joe all got goals
to see the final score being a whopping
5-0. Not a bad way to end the tour. Man
of the Match and also Champagne Mo-
ment goes to Francis for putting in a
vital tackle in defence and if that wasn’t
enough he ran half the length of the
pitch to get there. A rare sight. Dick
of the Day went to Sammy who man-
aged to put her foot through one of the
benches in the grandstand.
The last fines circle of tour was messy
with the usual fines and traditions be-
ing carried out back at the hotel. Spe-
cial mention to Chaz who was the
most annoying member on tour at that
point and proving why he’d earned his
Grandmaster title. The frivolities con-
tinued inside with Bacon proposing a
game of 3-man. If this wasn’t enough
he won the game and was very smug in
the process.
The last day of the tour was spent
chilling by the pool making the most
of the sun and playing mini-golf, show-
ing that we are all very serious about
sport, no matter which one. Bacon
won again.
For the final evening we went to a
restaurant and had a seafood meze
which, whilst being tasty to some,
wasn’t for everyone. Its amazing how
much fun can be had with prawns and
battered fish. Dinner overlooking the
sea was the perfect place to give out
the tour awards. Harry won the Nudist
Award for his willingness to get naked
at any time, Sammy won the Drunk
Award, pretty self explanatory, Chaz
won the Muppet Award, once again no
explanation needed and Kavit got Top
Scorer. Woman of Tour went to Myra
for being so enthusiastic and Man of
Tour went to Andreas for all the work
he put in. Tour god went to Fi but the
most import award was tour couple,
which went to Bacon and Francis for
sharing a bed for a week and complain-
ing when they got split up in Limassol.
It must be love.
It just has to be noted that there was
rather a lot of bed hopping whilst away,
including from those who you would
least expect it. Shiv only spent one
night in her own bed and, by doing so,
kicked Fi out, Sammy tried her hardest
to shark Ollie and hence swapped with
Bacon. Whilst it was just Fi and Bacon
that went to sleep in one room, it was
Fi, Bacon and Sammy that woke up
together and no one knows how! Ollie
was locked out in Agia Napa and slept
on a chair outside his apartment and
Kavit made a bed out of three chairs
when he couldn’t get in.
That concluded this years summer
tour for the Hockey Club. I would like
to say a huge thank you to Andreas and
Alex for all the work that they have put
inbecausewithouttheirknowledgeand
hard work Fi would have been so very
lost. Also to the IC Trust for sponsor-
ing our brilliant kit and to the Hockey
Club for their help and support.
First night meze with the unmistakable lime green t-shirts
Group photo with the British Army Exiles team after a convincing 5 – 0 win in Limassol
Continued from back page

