Scorcher!
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
Felix has been away for several months,
but now we’re back, with a new look,
new style and what promises to be a
very interesting and action packed
sports section.
This year, more emphasis will be
based on sports news, as well as the
regular match reports. Some new sec-
tions have also been introduced this
year, there will be a Mr. Muscle section
which will give tips on how to upgrade
yourself and get in shape. A new sports
league has also been introduced and
work is under way to get a prize sorted
for the winning team at the end of the
season. There will also be a weekly
roundup of sports results and fixtures,
covering the games played from the
week.
The sports edition will only be as
good as all of you make it. If no reports
are sent in, then the sports section will
only be a page long. So please do send
in your reports so that we make sure
the sports section is as exciting and as
interesting as it should be.
Deadline for reports is 8.00 p.m. on a
Monday and any pictures must be high
resolution and sent as separate file to
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk. Teams or
clubs that require specific sponsors
logos should also send the relevant art-
work. Please do try and send them in
on time as failure to do so may result
in the report not being published and
pushed to the following week.
felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Pre-season training week a hit
Hockey tour
This year saw 23 members of the
Hockey Club join our two favourite
Cypriotmembersintheirhomeland
for 10 fun filled days in Cyprus.
The tour got off to a shaky start
when the kit still hadn’t arrived on
Sunday evening, but it miraculously
turned up less than 10 hours before
we were due to depart. Fi not having
a clue and a last minute nature were
going to be themes of our tour. We
were scheduled to play four teams
over 10 days during our tour of Cy-
prus: First stop was Agia Napa.
Our adjustment to the heat was
swift as we hit the beach on the first
night, all wearing our beautiful lime
green t-shirts, there was no way we
were going to lose each other. The
Continued on page 42
IC better than medics, fact!
The dreaded bleep test being carried out in the sports hall
Imperial College Union has been rank-
er above Imperial Medicals in a recent
league table of all the sporting institu-
tions in the United Kingdom. Imperial
were ranked 29th in the country whilst
the medics could only manage 104th,
ranked between Central London and
Winchester. The ranking was deter-
mined by the British University Sports
Association (BUSA) in their annual
overall championship points, in which
Loughborough came top with 5015.5
points, followed by Bath and Birming-
ham with 3505.5 and 2601 points
respectively.
Imperial can not however claim to
be the best sporting institution in Lon-
don, as that crown belongs to Brunel
West London who came 23rd with 926
points, compared to Imperials 735.5
points.
With the ever increasing support
from Sport Imperial, and the high lev-
els of enthusiasm from the ACC and
ICSM SU, Imperial can expect to climb
the league table in years to come.
For those medics that are finding
this hard to believe, visit the BUSA
website: www.busa.org.uk
After on going talks between the Ath-
letics Club Committee (ACC) and
Sport Imperial over the summer break,
a pre-season training schedule was
agreed upon for the sports teams from
the ACC from the 24th – 28th Septem-
ber, to be held at Ethos as well as Hyde
Park.
The event was a massive success with
nearly 70 players attending the week
long event, and it will hopefully put
them and their teams in good stead for
the forthcoming season. From noon,
every day, the teams would have a 2
hour conditioning session with the
Sport Imperial staff, after which the
teams were given free time for person-
al training and sport massages. Several
social events were organised as well,
including a dodgeball tournament on
the Friday for all the individuals that
attended.
With only 80 places available each
day, due to capacity constraints in
the sports hall and availability, it was
considered to be a hit for those that at-
tended. However, it was disappointing
to see that there were certain clubs that
didn’t sign up at all, and that there was
not a consistent turnout from those
that did. Those who attended seemed
to think that the week was a great idea
and that they would like it to be repeat-
ed next year.
Ethos staff organised and ran the ses-
sions and facilitated the demands from
the ACC for the pre-season week. The
fact that Sport Imperial were willing to
encourage sporting ability within the
college, and were more than happy to
help, is a testament to them. Although
as always, there would be a financial
implication to the clubs to take part.
The majority of the costs were cov-
ered by the clubs and their members,
with the ACC contributing a disclosed
amount and Sport Imperial covering
the small remainder from their Devel-
oping Excellence Scheme.
Hopefully next year Sport Imperial
and the ACC will be able to organise
another pre-season training, and that
there will be a greater uptake from the
sports teams themselves. As always the
question that should be raised is why
sports clubs have to pay their own uni-
versity to use their facilities, especially
when the college is trying to improve
the standard of sport?

