6 felix Friday 28 September 2007
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
Everybody’s a Facebook loser
T
o get the most out of to-
day’s column, you’ll need
an internet connection,
because I’ve got some in-
teractive fun for you this
week. What I want you to do first is
surf to your favourite website. Really.
Go on – actually do it, don’t just read
on and spoil the magic.
Now, be honest – are you on Face-
book? If you’re not, skip on a paragraph
or two. Otherwise, put your right hand
in front of the monitor, fingers spread
out and palm facing towards you. Yes?
Okay, then stare at the gaps between
your fingers, and move your hand very
fast towards you, so that it slaps you in
the face, as hard as possible. Do it a few
times, just to get the feel of it. Are you
with me yet, or would it be easier if I
created a “First Up Against The Wall,
Come The Revolution” group and in-
vited you to it?
Here are the things that terrorism
is responsible for bringing into my
life – occasional worried phone calls
from my mother. And that’s really
about it. Here’s what Facebook users
are responsible for bringing into my
life – constant, unending badgering by
others to join inane, curly-fingers-quo-
tation-marks “political” groups about
completely fuck all; page after page of
pointless writing in the papers and on
news sites covering “the power of the
internet” as if email had never been
invented; the dullest conversation I
have ever, ever had, involving the latest
Facebook meta-gossip; Madeleine sod-
ding McCann; and probably worst of
all, the four-in-a-million retards who
haven’t joined Facebook, ostensibly as
some ridiculous statement of personal
integrity, but really because they can’t
trust themselves not to start posting
photos of their nipples, who delight in
impressing their “alternative choice”
upon me every waking hour of every
day.
Whoop-di-do. You discovered so-
cial networking. Here’s how you find
out what my ‘Favourite Movies’ are if
you’re a Facebook user – you become
my friend. And I don’t mean you click
on a strip of text and write something
in a box about me having really nice
eyes, or thinking you knew me from
some club in north Wales. I mean you,
you know, talk to me and get to know
me and things. Don’t get the wrong
end of the meme here – I’m just as up
for buying into internet-based group
masturbation as the next student. But
unlike the rest of the Imperial ‘net-
work’ on Facebook, I’ve managed to
contain my burning desire to share my
relationship status with half of South
Kensington and some moron from
New Jersey. People I don’t know aren’t
listed as my friends; do you see the
subtlety here? I don’t list my favourite
music for my friends to see, because
my friends already know what that is.
That’s why they’re my friends. It’s like
how when a burly gentlemen stand-
ing outside Tesco at midnight asks
you if you’re on your own, you don’t
say, “Why yes, I have no friends in the
immediate area and am a little bit lost.
Also, maybe you’d like to know my top
three Orlando Bloom films?” Instead,
you walk on, because hey! That’s kind
of how society works.
I don’t care if you think it’s a good
way to meet new people. So is serving
a jail sentence for indecent exposure,
but we don’t spend our lunch hours
attempting that, do we? Nor do I care
if you think it’s an upmarket version
of MySpace – at least the people on
MySpace knew they were geeks with
a self-respect lobotomy. Facebook is
MySpace, but with any shred of enter-
tainment sucked dry, replaced with a
blue-and-white colour scheme, and
given a copy of The Sun to read.
Honest to god, a cursory glimpse of
my News Feed tells me that people I
know – people I have been in the same
room as – have joined a group for “Hot
Chinese Girls”. Now, there are literally
millions of ways to connect to other
human beings on this planet. Religion.
Politics. Being born in the eighties. But
no, we’ve actually chosen to hook up
with people who have a thing for Far
Eastern women in tights. Awesome.
One up for the next generation.
But you don’t care, and neither do I.
Because frankly, if you’re on Facebook
for seven hours a day, at least I know
where to avoid you.
A brief overview of the RCSU
I
t’s that time of year again… In
this edition of Felix we extend
a very special welcome to the
freshers! Good luck in your first
few weeks and make the most of
them! We’d like to encourage you all
to come along to our freshers’ events
including a comedy night, a pub crawl,
a classic sports day (egg and spoon
races – wahey!), a bowling night and
of course the Royal College of Science
Union (RCSU) Freshers’ Ball at Zoo
Bar & Club just off Leicester Square
(£5 in advance including champagne
reception, two free vodka red bulls
AND a chocolate fountain!) For more
information about these events, in-
cluding dates and times go to www.
rcsu.org.uk!
So, What is the RCSU then? Well,
IC is basically divided into three facul-
Jennifer Morgan
President
ties. The engineers, the medics and of
course, the scientists! Each faculty has
its own constituent union under the
big umbrella of Imperial College Un-
ion. The faculty union for the scientists
is the RCSU, with over 4,500 students.
The RCSU was founded in 1907, fol-
lowing the merger of the Royal College
of Science (RCS) with the Royal School
of Mines and the City & Guilds Insti-
tute of London into the Imperial Col-
lege. With the disappearance of the
RCS as an independent institute, it
was felt necessary that all students of
the Sciences at the new Imperial Col-
lege be represented by a union which
carried on the name and spirit of the
RCS. Despite a little disbanding which
happened several years ago where the
RCSU was split up (a silly period which
we won’t go into) however, we were
successfully reformed last year!
OK, history lesson over, what does
the RCSU do? The RCSU commit-
tee coordinates events and activities
for all of the science students, as well
as providing an academic and welfare
representation network. We also have
our own publication called “Broad-
sheet” filled with student news, useful
info and generally things to keep you
amused during your 9am lectures! We
also have a national essay competition,
“The Science Challenge” which was set
up last year and proved hugely success-
ful drawing in thousands of applicants
from Imperial students and Sixth Form
students from across the country. New
to this year will be RCSU sports teams
which you can register your interest in
at our website.
We have a brand new office this year
on the Sherfield Walkway and we’ve
applied for funding to revamp it with
some new furniture and general of-
fice looking paraphernalia so it should
be looking the business very soon! So
come in for a chat so we can show it
off!
Over the coming year the RCSU is
going to use this column to keep you
up to date with what we’re up to (so
long as Tomo lets us keep it!)
All science students are automati-
cally members of the RCSU but if you’d
like to get involved with the committee
or if you have any queries at all please
feel free to email me at rcsu.president@
imperial.ac.uk.
Finally, I’d like to wish you the very
best of luck for this year! Come and see
us at Freshers’ Fair and feel free to pop
into our office at any time.
H
ello strangers. Wel-
come (back) to Impe-
rial. Firstly, a thank you
to everyone who voted
for me during the elec-
tion in February. You’ve given me a
fantastic opportunity and I intend to
keep my side of the bargain by produc-
ing a quality newspaper for you to read
throughout the year. I hope you all en-
joyed the Maoam and lollipops!
Felix has undergone a bit of nip and
tuck over the summer period. Hope-
fully you’ll find that the cat is a sleeker
beast now in terms of design.
This year’s team is relatively inexpe-
rienced compared to previous years.
A lot of the members that joined last
year have risen through the ranks to
become section editors and we also
have a number of writers and editors
who started this week.
A. Geek
That’s not to say they’re any less capa-
ble! The team is enthusiastic and we’re
striving to bring you a more creative
Felix. We have a number of features in
this issue, more for the following issues
and some ideas in the pipeline as well.
If you want us to dress up your club or
society’s tour reports just like the Fell-
wanderers’ one later in the issue, send
your articles and some nice high reso-
lution photos to felix@imperial.ac.uk.
The Felix website has also been up-
dated with some of the content from
the Freshers’ Special Issue. Head to
www.felixonline.co.uk to have a gan-
ders and take the Freshers’ Personality
Test where you can clearly define your
character by answering ten easy ques-
tions. We’ll try to keep it updated regu-
larly with articles from the newspaper
and of course the Horoscopes will be
there so that you can get your weekly
fix of insanity each er... week.
If you’ve got something to rant about,
whether it’s Union politics, something
College has done or if you want to try
and make people laugh, these are the
pages designed for you. Everyone is
welcome to write a piece for the Com-
ments section so send in your diatribes
to comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Everyone has a right to reply too, so
if you’re on the receiving end of a ver-
bal beating, get in touch and we can
commence round two.
Tom Roberts
Felix Editor-in-Chief
felix
Royal College of
Science Union
Wielding the mighty organ
The new Felix logo. Love it? Hate it? Let us know what you think of the
redesign and the newspaper in general: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“
I’m just as
up for buying
into internet-
based group
masturbation
as the next
student.
”

