Welcome (back)
If you are new to Imperial on behalf of the
Sabbatical team I would like to extend to
you the warmest of welcomes. Preparations
for Freshers’ Week have taken up a lot of
our time this summer so it will be nice to
see all the planned events finally go ahead. I
would also like to welcome back all returning
students and I hope you found whatever you
got up to over the summer enjoyable. I am a
bit gutted that my columns will now appear
on the Union page rather than the “Felix”
pages I used to write on when I worked for
this beloved paper but I’d still like to take this
opportunity to give you a brief rundown on
what we have been up to and what we have
planned.
Changes to Beit Quad
Over the past couple of weeks we have
painted dB’s to freshen it up a bit. This room
is due to be renovated in due course as part
of the Beit redevelopment project but this
stage is still a few years off and we’d like to
make the place as nice as possible for current
students. The Executive Committee also
decided that a free standing awning should
be erected in Beit Quad to provide shelter/
shade for people who wish to sit outside.
Freshers Fair
This is a wonderful opportunity for all
students to join societies where they can
meet like-minded new friends. It takes place
on Tuesday 2nd October between the hours
of 11am and 4pm all across campus so
please come along. I am sure you will find
that at least one of our 280+ clubs will be of
interest to you.
Elections
It’s that time of year again. Over the next
couple of weeks there will be elections for
a variety of positions on the Union Council,
Court and our newly formed Trustee
Board. This represents a great opportunity
for everyone to give something back to
the student body as well as giving you
the chance to develop soft skills that will
be incredibly useful for whatever career
path you choose to take once you have
left Imperial. Nominations open online at
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote this Saturday
but look out for more details on posters, in
Felix or in the Union email over the coming
weeks.
My
manifesto
promises
Some of you might
remember two
of my election
commitments
regarding discount
cards. I promised
to sell the NUS Extra discount card for
£7 instead of £10 as I did not believe it
was appropriate for ICU to profit from this
scheme. Unfortunately the way the scheme
is set up means that it is not possible for us
to charge £7 on website sales so instead we
are offering £3 in vouchers that can be used
in all of ICU’s bars & catering outlets. If you
purchase an NUS Extra card this week you
will receive them on the spot but if you have
ordered a card online then you may pick up
your vouchers from the Union Reception
from Monday.
I’ve also been working on obtaining some
discounts from local businesses that will
be available with your swipe card so watch
this space over the coming month for details
once I have them finalised.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Welcome to Imperial!
Stephen Brown
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Your
Sabbatical Team
2007/08
Alistair Cott Stephen Brown Kirsty Patterson Chris Larvin
Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies)
President Deputy President
(Education & Welfare)
Deputy President
(Finance & Services)
dpcs@imperial.ac.uk president@imperial.ac.uk dpew@imperial.ac.uk dpfs@imperial.ac.uk
The Sabbaticals are elected each year by you the students. They take a year out of their studies and work
full-time for the Union as its most senior Officers. Feel free to contact them when you need help or advice
or to raise issues. They can be contacted by email or by coming up to the Union Offices on the first floor of
the Union Building, Beit Quadrangle, during office hours.
IAC
IAC
Information and Advice Centre
Information and Advice Centre
t: 020 7594 8067
e:advice@imperial.ac.uk
Are you finding
Are you finding
it hard to get the
it hard to get the
answers you need?
answers you need?
t: 020 7594 8067
The Information and Advice Centre is your free
The Information and Advice Centre is your free
service for confidential, impartial, independent advice
service for confidential, impartial, independent advice
and information on academic, financial, housing,
and information on academic, financial, housing,
employment, consumer, welfare, personal safety and
employment, consumer, welfare, personal safety and
international student issues.
international student issues.
Go to the IAC, East Wing Basement, Beit Quad
Go to the IAC, East Wing Basement, Beit Quad

