14 FRIDAY 01 NOV
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
ronyhasalwaysbeen,well,ironic.
Take for example Aristophanes,
great ancient Greek satirist
of whom Nietzsche said ‘that
transﬁguring, complementary
genius, for whose sake one pardons
all of Hellenism for having existed’,
and his play The Clouds. In a famous
scene Socrates muses on the origins
of clouds, their possible genesis in
the condensation of water vapour;
the clown then goes on to ridicule
Socrates, because everybody knows
that the Gods give us clouds… The
irony should be obvious to all of us:
Aristophanes’ ironic and ‘ridiculous’
explanation, imputed to the sophistic
and ridiculous philosopher, is of
course the truth.
Perhaps the above should be
proposed as the actual logical formula
for irony, that is, a reﬂexive turn on
irony itself. So take instead, a short
sketch I heard on the radio the other
week. A man is listening to a program
when he hears ‘this painting is truly
iconic.’ The man then goes on a rant
to his partner: ‘I hate the use of the
word iconic. Everything is iconic
these days (etc.) Nobody seems to
know what the word iconic actually
means!’ The program then, rather
predictably, goes on to say ‘It depicts
the virgin Mary and Jesus Christ…’
What this limp joke shows is that the
simple take on irony doesn’t actually
work – irony requires two levels to be
eﬀective. Because the fact is here, the
joke is not simply on the disgruntled
old man from the joke, it is on the
joke itself, because what the joke fails
to see is that the man’s criticism is
simply wrong. What the correct and
proper use of language fails to capture
is that the incorrect use is precisely
part of the impartation of meaning.
Take the word ‘literally’, as in ‘I was
literally dying’. The common sense
criticism, ‘no, when you say literally,
you actually mean ﬁguratively’, misses
the point: it is through the disjunction
between the literal meaning of the
word and its usage that gets the
message across.
And this brings me to my real
point, the posters I have seen around
Imperial campus saying ‘God’s not
Dead – evidence for the existence of
God’. Incidentally they remind me of
another failed joke, a line of graﬃti
with the lines ‘God is Dead, Nietzsche’
followed by ‘Nietzsche’s dead, God’.
Alenka Zupançiç correctly points
out that a funnier version of the joke
would be something like ‘God is Dead,
and actually I don’t feel too good
either…’
My initial reaction, and I suspect
the initial reaction of many, was ‘How
stupid. There is no proof that God
exists, and if there were it would be
self-defeating because God needs
faith.’ This is of course the old Douglas
Adams joke: the Babelﬁsh is so mind
bogglingly useful that God must have
made it. This is proof for God so now
we can know, instead of having to
believe, God exists. But without faith
God is useless, so God disappears
‘in a poof of logic’. But the true irony
here is double: there is no such mind
bogglingly useful thing as a Babelﬁsh,
so for Douglas Adams, perhaps God
existed after all; when God disappears
in a ‘poof of logic’ does not Douglas
Adams open up the space for people
to believe in God again? After all, we
must recall that Wittgenstein’s famous
‘Whereof one cannot speak, thereof
one must be silent’ that closes the
Tractatus was not an assertion of the
impotence of the that-which-cannot-
be-spoken, but rather an assertion of
the sacrosanct nature of the super-
linguistic (music, God etc.) If anyone
doubts this just think of the meaning of
You Know Who in Harry Potter. This
is why I prefer the recent Pears and
McGuinness translation to the famous
Ogden one; the ﬁnal line reads ‘What
we cannot speak must be passed over
in silence.’ Here the religious element
of Wittgenstein’s thought is brought
out fully (Passover/passed over). So
when Douglas Adams kills oﬀ God,
does he not really put him back in
the proper place for mystical divine
worship?
What should be noted is that,
despite the same conclusion reached
(God can be worshipped), these two
strands of irony at work in Douglas
Adams’ joke (there is no Babelﬁsh;
if God is killed by logic, God can be
resurrected for spirit) are formally at
odds with each other. This is why we
shouldn’t just dismiss the ‘God is not
Dead’ poster because without faith
God dies, Adams has shown that
God is a tougher cockroach than that.
This is why Dawkins always seems to
miss the point in his criticism, cogent
though it is. Neither is it correct
to, as Nietzsche and the Romantics
attempted, to adopt a heroic posture
of anti-theological passion, with all of
Satan’s ‘Evil be thou my Good’ and so
on. This is clearly preserving the place
of God by killing God oﬀ.
Instead our attitude to God was
properly described by Brecht. ‘If you
were to ﬁnd out tomorrow that God
doesn’t exist, would anything change?
If so, then you have your answer. You
already need God. If not then stop
worrying.’ Or as Chomsky brilliantly
put it, ‘what exactly am I supposed not
to believe in?’
Atheism and the Irony of Religion
Christy Kelly
Writer
“Dawkins always
seems to miss the
point in his criticism,
cogent though it is”
‘Happy Belated Halloween!’ Can I say that?
Aside from seeing scores of oddly dressed
people hanging around the Beit Quad while
getting back to the Felix oﬃce on Wednesday
night, I have thankfully be saved from
the Halloween hype. Instead some truly
interesting things have happened this week,
including the front page stories: the debate
about the government’s Immigration Bill at
Union Council and the mischievous attempts
of British Influence. The Immigration Bill is
an interesting topic, while only a few parts of
the bill actually aﬀect students, the measures
that are concerning have the potential to do
damage to the UK’s international desirability
as a provider of higher education. During the
Council meeting there was a lot of debate
looking at both sides of the health measure
(i.e. whether international students should
be charged an amount of money per year
in order to use NHS services), however the
accommodation measure was more uniformly
criticised, with many worrying about the
eﬀect that forcing landlords to carry out
more stringent checks on migrant residents
might have on the availability of private
accommodation for international students
(both undergraduate and postgraduate).
However, another key event this week was
the release of the Imperial’s new Education
Student Strategy, a document spearheaded
by the Vice Provost of Education with the
intent to improve feedback and transparency
in College, while looking for ways to improve
the student experience. While some of these
improvements might be more long term, Felix
looks forward to the future improvements.
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Halloween, Council
and Education
Letters
Dearest Felix Editor
As I sit here in my forest reading through the
latest issue of Felix I couldn’t stop myself from
spilling my Chamomile tea all down my best
Robes. A response to my letter that actually
criticises my views and calls me irresponsible!
Oh Paladin you are obviously just jealous of
me and all of Druid kind. I shall issue no such
apology for trying to bring the gift of Ice Cream
to the Union. In fact I feel a kind of sadness
that your mind cannot cope with the beauty
of the substance and so it causes you physical
pain. If you don’t want to apologise to me for
causing me to have to make a trip to the lake
to clean my robes, I suggest we partake in an
epic battle of the minds. Here is one to start.
I am thinking of a mysterious number that
when multiplied by itself it is equal to double
the original number. Are you able to fathom
what it is?
The Druid
FELIX
Who won? Who
lost? You decide!

