16 FRIDAY 01 NOV
ARTS Editor: Arianna Sorba
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Paul Klee made
visible at Tate
1:54 - African Art
What: Paul Klee: Making Visible
Where: Tate Modern, SE1
When: 16th Oct 2013 - 9th Mar 2014
Price: £13.10 students, £15 adults
Julia Zimmermann
Writer
M
aking visible: what an
unimaginative name for an
art exhibition! – This was my
ﬁrst thought, but the Paul
Klee exhibition in the Tate Modern
surprisingly deserves that name.
Through a collection of pictures it
conveys a lot more than “just” art: the
artist, the context and of course the
idea behind each picture is literally
“made visible”.
The collection tells Klee’s story: from
ﬁrst attempts, to developing a personal
style, it takes you across the artist’s
diﬀerent phases. Klee emphasises and
develops on colour, then content, or
shape, and experiments with elements
of most art movements of the time.
More than “just” Klee, you get your
ﬁx of fauvism, cubism, abstraction,
symbolism, surrealism and even
caricature. All in one go, Klee style.
Klee has the qualities most Imperial
students can empathise with:
meticulous precision, dedication and
a constant striving for innovation.
From descriptions of the works you
get a sense of his extensive cultural
knowledge and constant fascination
with the world around him. Klee’s
passion is further shown by his
innumerable technique developments,
as well as his dedication to teaching.
Klee worked for it, but makes it look
so fun and easy. That’s admirable.
There are a few take home messages.
If you’re the type who likes to pick
up that brush once in a while, this is
MUSEUM FOLKWANG, GERMANY
Kamil McClelland vistis the worldʼs ﬁrst
contemporary African art fair
I
love contemporary African art.
Raw talent exists throughout
the continent of colour and
exuberance, but a pitiful lack of
funding leaves the majority of
it undiscovered. However, with its
newly burgeoning economies, a tidal
wave of new and exciting art from the
continent is about to hit us, with all
the force and vitality of the dazzling
pieces themselves. Africa is the
place to be looking in years to come.
And with El Anatsui’s huge tapestry
TSIATSIA – Searching for Connection
taking pride of place in the Royal
Academy’s courtyard for this year’s
summer exhibition, it seems the wave
is already beginning to lap against our
shores.
This October, 1:54, the world’s ﬁrst
contemporary African art fair, brought
together works from across all 54
African countries to the beautiful
setting of Somerset House. Described
as ‘the most signiﬁcant cross sectional
insight into art from the continent
ever seen’, it aimed to break new
ground and reveal this little-known
art scene to the wider world in all its
glory. It most certainly achieved this,
with 15 diﬀerent galleries exposing the
eclectic mix of art that Africa has to
oﬀer.
The fair deliberately came to
London during Frieze to gain
maximum exposure and publicity for
an art market with a lack of funding,
infrastructure and, unfortunately,
inﬂuence. Being only the ﬁrst art fair
of its kind, one must look more at its
potential for the future as opposed
to its current state of infancy. And
there was deﬁnitely a mood of great
optimism and possibility amongst the
curators, patrons and artists that were
wondering between gallery spaces.
However, it really was telling
that the fair was unable to secure
the continent’s leading galleries,
Goodman and Stevenson of South
Africa, which were already exhibiting
at Frieze. Moreover, with only 15
galleries at the show, you felt it a bit
lacking in material, especially when
compared to both the PAD and Frieze
fairs on that week. Such a shame,
considering the quality of work that
was gathered, such as those displayed
by The Museum of Modern Art,
Equatorial Guinea, which does not yet
even have a physical gallery space back
in its home country.
I really had no idea what to expect
from 1:54. Contemporary African
art can seem so impenetrable to an
outsider due to our lack of exposure
to it. One cannot help but feel excited
when this world, completely unseen to
most, is suddenly revealed and in such
a spectacular manner. Many of the
works derived their inﬂuences from
the African art that came before them;
the textiles, the sculpture, the masks
that had such a profound eﬀect on the
likes of Derain and Picasso at the start
of the 20th century. However, it puts
it in a context that we can understand,
tackling subjects like urbanisation
and the issues that accompany it, to
give but one example. This creates a
collection that is both challenging and
new yet at the same time strangely
accessible and recognisable.
In a way I don’t particularly like
the term “African Art”. It places all
these works, made in cultural settings
completely discreet from one another,
under one umbrella. How can the work
of Cyprien Tokoudagba, which gives
us insight into Benin’s spiritual world,
be put alongside The Last Judgment
by Zimbabwean Richard Mudariki,
which addresses politics, censorship
and greed? It creates an impossible
juxtaposition that runs throughout the
whole of the show.
Despite this, it almost feels necessary
for works from across Africa to be
displayed in this way. I feel a uniﬁed
identity is what African art needs right
now, with a single African voice. The
art of individual countries is not well
enough established to be represented
just by itself, and so an African identity
allows it to be seen and acknowledged
by the wider world. And for a visitor
largely ignorant of the diversity of
African art, it oﬀers an opportunity
to dip one’s feet into this unexplored
ocean with minimal eﬀort.
It is diﬃcult to summarize what
was on display at 1:54 but pieces
generally were able to convey the
entrepreneurship and powerful zest
for life emanating from this young
continent. Many looked at conﬂicts
that have arisen between cultural
traditions and a modern world of
consumerism, where everything
is disposable. Romuald Hazoumè
wittily reinvented African masks out
of recycled plastics and synthetic
hair – as if that is what the modern
human has become – as opposed to
a gorgeous piece of carved wood, the
cultural norm.
1:54 is full of surprises, especially
when you compare the cost of some
of the innovative and dynamic pieces
on display to the six-ﬁgure sums you
can expect at mainstream events like
Frieze. To be able to pick up a work
as deeply emotional as Amahiguéré
Dolo’s expressive charcoal and kaolin
pieces for only £800 is virtually
unheard of in the art world, and an
opportunity any buyer would be a fool
to let pass by.
Because of this, I see a promising
future for this fair, especially with
the Tate and Saatchi Gallery having
purchased some of the works on
display here. Despite its issues, I
believe it will play an important role
in the burgeoning popularity of the
contemporary African art market – for
it solves the problem of the scattered
and decentralized art scene on the
continent, by scouting the art from it
and taking it to the rest of the world.
This year’s show felt more like an
opportunity to discuss the future of
the African art market, as opposed to
a comprehensive display of what the
continent has to oﬀer – something
the fair organisers were quite happy
to admit. Instead, they see this, as I
do, as a great step forwards in making
the vitality of Africa’s art culture an
undeniable fact on the world stage.
A visitor at “the most signiﬁcant cross-sectional insight into art from the African
continent ever seen”
deﬁnitely the place for inspiration
– Klee’s techniques are simple and
explained well enough to try out back
at home. When reading the displayed
text, you get an understanding of
the historic and art-historic context.
Impressive fellow artists and the
historic turmoil of the early 20th
century adds depth of understanding
to the paintings you see.
The collection culminates at
Klee’s best. All the elements Klee
experimented with earlier seem to be
combined, his style found: meticulous
precision, bold lines, symbolism and
ﬁtting colour. The large, thought
provoking paintings of Klee’s later
life manage to reﬂect both Klee’s
deteriorating health as well as the
troubling political development. You
get the feeling Klee had this last,
urgent necessity to leave behind a
message. Never aggressive, never
openly criticising, the art of his
last years is not as light-hearted as
previous works, but it does quite
clearly express concern, anxiety and
urgency. So “making visible” actually
has a bit more substance than an
advertising gag.
The exhibition displays a solid
collection and well-guided run-
through of Klee’s work. However,
don’t expect anything life-changing.
Deﬁnitely go if you like early 20th
century art; this is your heaven! It’s
also worth a look if you don’t really
know your way around art of the
early 20th century but want to give
it a go: Klee’s many styles make for a
great introduction! It also makes for
extravagant conversation material if
you’re tired discussing coursework
and lectures with friends. But perhaps
don’t bother if you start with the free
bit of Tate modern and realise after
the 2nd room you’d rather get back to
the South Ken library.
DENZIL HUGH DEAN

