18 FRIDAY 01 NOV
BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Are they worse than animals?
What does investment banking look like
from the point of view of a wide eyed mon-
ey hungry graduate? Anyone considering
going into this avenue of ﬁnance after grad-
uation should seriously consider giving this
book a read to gain some insight into what
kind of work and lifestyle you can expect.
The long hours, never ending assignments,
high ﬁgure deals, fat pay cheques, coveted
bonuses and sleeplessness you can expect
are neatly summed up in these fast paced
and insightful accounts.
They two authors both worked for a
reputable New York investment ﬁrm for a
number of years following graduation from
Ivy league business schools. Their stories
unfold chronologically from starting busi-
ness school, to getting summer internships,
then contracts and full time – and one re-
ally means full time – positions. Their ex-
periences allows for a wider discussion of
how the industry itself works, and its place
in the modern economy. I myself have some
friends who went into this line of work and
am now ﬁnally able to understand why it is
I never see them, and just what they get up
to all day (and night) long.
Of course one should acknowledge that
the book was written in the ﬁrst place due
to the both the authors leaving the industry
through disillusionment. Their colleagues
would probably argue they were burned
out, though they would counter that they
had ﬁnally come to their senses. In spite of
such bias the authors are able to provide
a true and fascinating account the inner
workings of investment banking, a profes-
sion few people really understand but are
nevertheless all too ready to have an opin-
ion on.
The book is now a decade old, but still
meticulously encapsulates what new re-
cruits to investment banking can expect.
Reading extracts to a friend of mine who
lives this world made him laugh out loud
at the way his job was being described. Not
because the book was wrong however, but
because his job was being summed up with
equal measures of accuracy and vitriol. This
same friend has told me of his ninety hour
weeks, regular all nighters, cocaine fren-
zies and the masochistic way in which he
is managed. When I question him on why
he puts up with some of the more pointless
tasks he is set, which only seem to serve the
purpose of gratifying his line manager rath-
er than accomplish anything productive
for the company, he explained that I didn’t
understand how the ‘food chain’ works. Im-
agine my delight and surprise when turning
to chapter six and ﬁnding it was in fact en-
titled ‘The Food Chain’.
I’m now in a position where I both un-
derstand such aspects of this industry, and
yet don’t understand them, which is a bet-
ter position than where I was previously.
This eﬀectively sums up the book, in that
it provides an insight into the goings on of
investment banking, and the very personal
and casual way in which the authors’ lives
are conveyed allows one to appropriate the
mindset and motivations of those drawn to
such a life (spoiler alert, it’s mostly greed).
What was quite unusual about this book
though, was that it was written by more
than one person. There are always two voic-
es throughout the book, the story unfold-
ing from two perspectives, with each one
having their own typeface. They both speak
very candidly about their experiences, in a
Send your submissions for
our newest regular fea-
tures!
FLASH FICTION: Ultrashort
fiction up to 200 characters
STUDENT PICKS: Send us up
to 250 words on your favour-
ite book and how it changed
you
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Calum Grant discusses a book about bankers
Student Picks
It is disappointing that the nineteenth century Polish
writer Bolesław Prus is not better known internation-
ally. He is often eclipsed by his Henryk Sienkiewicz but
I have always found Prus’ ﬁction to be far better written
and more ambitious than that of his Nobel Prize winning
contemporary – whose works, while certainly very en-
joyable, rarely amounted to much more than grown-up
adventure stories.
Probably Prus’ most famous novel, the plot of The Doll
centres on the rich businessman Stanisław Wokulski and
his love for the aristocratic Isabella Łęcka. Much of the
book is focused on this relationship, as well as a more
general exploration of the nature of love. The Doll how-
ever, is also a far more complex work – while the love af-
fair plays out in the foreground, the background presents
us with a profound and fascinating exploration of Polish
society in the late nineteenth century. As in many of his
other writings, Prus was ruthless in exposing the oppres-
sion and unfairness in the world he lived in, and is me-
ticulous in examining its causes. The many subplots and
themes of the novel come together seamlessly to form a
compelling study of human nature – and the cruelty and
selﬁshness that is inherent within it.
There is much in this work that reminds me of Dickens
– however I have always preferred Prus. I ﬁnd that his
work often has a greater energy to it – you feel that not a
word is wasted – even in a novel as long as this.
The Doll is not the best of Prus’ novels but it is it is the
easiest to ﬁnd as an English translation. While at times a
diﬃcult read it is always engaging and highly rewarding.
A work which, even while describing events taking place
long ago and far away, still feels highly relevant.
The Doll by Bolesław Prus
Maciej Matuszewski picks:
Flash Fiction
Procrastination by Evelyn Craven
Deadline’s next week – there’s plenty of time –
for once there’s going to be no all-nighters. But
ﬁrst, I think, I deserve a break – read a book, go
for a walk, maybe write an article for Felix?
highly informal manner as though one was
picking the brains of an old friend. Due to
this, the book does at times feel like a series
of blog posts written by people to whom
writing doesn’t come naturally. While the
likes of Martin Lewis’ 1989 book Liars Pok-
er may overall provide a better insight into
investment banking (and is deﬁnitely better
written), it is dated and Monkey Business is
far more relevant to those going into the
city today.
“... ninety hour weeks,
regular all nighters,
cocaine frenzies and the
masochistic way in which
he is managed”
“... long hours, never
ending assignments,
high figure deals,
fat pay cheques,
coveted bonuses and
sleeplessness...”

