imperialcollegeunion.org
London Climate Forum
The student-led London Climate Forum (LCF) returns to Imperial College
London on Saturday 9 November.
It is the largest conference of its kind in the UK. Built on the belief that we all have
the power and potential to shape a sustainable future, LCF 2013 is your chance
to engage with leading thinkers in politics, business, campaigning, media and
science.
Conﬁrmed speakers include John Sauven, Director of Greenpeace UK, John Vidal,
the Environment Editor of The Guardian and David Hone, Chief Climate Change
Advisor for Shell. There will also be interactive breakout sessions and dynamic
exhibition stands to provide an inspiring environment for the changemakers of
tomorrow.
Key themes of the speeches and panel discussions include policy and
economics in the face of climate change, the IPCC Climate Report, sustainable
business approaches for the future, and moving beyond the energy problem. For
more information, visit the Imperial Hubs website.
imperialhub.org
Union Page
We respond to your feedback!
Last week Imperial College Union published its third annual National
Student Survey (NSS) Response. This document is again designed to be a
usesful and constructive document detailing how the College and the Union
should respond to the issues raised by students in the survey. Imperial’s NSS
results were the best they have ever been, and the Union improved by 6%,
however there is still much work to be done.
We want Imperial’s NSS scores to be as high as possible, but this should not
be our primary objective. Our primary objective should always be to ensure that
every single one of our students has the best possible experience at Imperial,
enjoying not only their course, but also their whole university experience. If
we achieve this, the NSS scores should rise to reﬂect this increase in student
satisfaction. We have been, and continue to be, extremely pleased with the
reaction across the College to our NSS Responses and look forward to working
with departments to help make the student experience at Imperial the best it
can be.
imperialcollegeunion.org/nss2013
h-bar is the exciting new Postgraduate and staff pub and café bought to
you by Imperial College Union and Campus Services.
Opening on Monday 11 November and available on weekdays from 08.30
to 23.00, h-bar offers international grab and go lunch options in the café and
traditional fare from hearty pies to favourite tipples in the pub. We want h-bar
to be the social hub for Postgraduate students and staff on campus and have a
great range of events and nights organised for the future.
Want to work in the h-bar? Applications close Friday 1 November.
imperialcollegeunion.org/barstaff
The new place to eat and drink
Job opportunities at the Union
We have the following part-time vacancies and voluntary positions available -
just visit our website to apply.
h-bar Staff - applications close Friday 1 November, 23:59
We run one of the best student venues in the UK and we need a team to
make the magic happen.
MinibusTeam
We are looking for people to join our team of student staff to help look after
our ﬂeet of minibuses.
PorterageTeam
We are looking for a team of student staff to help us keep the Union Building
and its spaces ready for the day ahead.
StudentTrustees of the Union (voluntary position) - applications close
Friday 15 November, 12:00
Help us improve and better serve the students of Imperial College London.
imperialcollegeunion.org/jobs

