FRIDAY 01 NOV
2
EDITOR’S PICKS
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: More from teh Lolcat editor
Erratum
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
PUZZLES
COMMENT
So you think you could be a
better GTA? Think again! Like
riding a bicycle it’s not as easy
as it looks!
Teach First!
Do you want to change live
and make society better?
BUCS
Our puzzles our getting
harder! Get involved! There’s
still time to join the FUCWIT
league!
Puzzling times
Have a look at Imperial’s BUCS
Home Fixtures in the Sport
section
SPORT
Classical Guide
The start of Emiel’s guide to
Classical Music.
Episode II : In the beginning
MUSIC
Felix would like to oﬀer our most sincere apoligies to Pokémon fans worldwide
last week for accidentally publishing Pokémons as the plural of Pokémon.
Want to help us copy edit? Email felix@imperial.ac.uk
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors VACANT Business Editor James Tsim Science Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editors Kartikeya Rana,
Jash Rughani Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna Sorba Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson, William Stocker Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film Editor John Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene, Imran Rashid Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen
Chua, Osama Arawa Travel Editor, Clubs & Socs Editors Nida Mahmud, and you? Chris Richardson Sports Editors Kunal Wagle Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk
Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Copy Chieflets Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Copy Editors Alexandra Hamilton, The dude with the cool headphones
PUZZLES
COMMENT SABB HOT DESK
Another Confessions of a
Graduate Teaching Assistant.
This week we travel to lands
afar...
Peek on the Warpath
We’ve found a person with a
keen wit and a sharp eye, do
you agree with his opinion?
This weekʼs Sabbs are the Union
President and the Deputy President
of Welfare and the topic is the
student trustee recruitment.
Go and say howdy in the JCR on
Friday between 12-13:00. Any other
topics welcome!
Bonfire Night (Remember the 5th of November?)
Oooh, lucky you thereʼs another ʻholidayʼ for you to get excited about! In case you
havenʼt heard the story of Guy Fawkes, Google is that way ->
What are your plans for Bonﬁre Night There are several locations to see fantastic
ﬁreworks from including a free event in Blackheath Park (SE London) on 2nd November
(8pm), a ticketed event in Battersea Park also on the 2nd (Adv. tickets only - £6, display
at 8pm) and another ticketed event in Crystal Palace Park (SE20) at 8.30pm (£6). Or if
youʼve got oodles of cash you can watch them from the Shard on the 2nd November.
Survey Time
Following Union Council
on Tuesday if youʼd
like to take part in a
short 5-minute survey to
give your views on the
Governmentʼs proposed
Immigration Bill go to:
tinyurl.com/
ImBilSurv
We’re still looking for:
news reporters
illustrators and contributors.
email: felix@imperial.ac.uk
Next week
We ﬁnally get back to our comic strip Plugtime.
Keep your eyes peeled!

