20 FRIDAY 01 NOV
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
Immersed in Fanboy Heaven
Riaz Agahi reviews Pelicanʼs long awaited return
n my less pretentious
teenage years I was a big
fan of all things metal. I
gradually, however, found
myself gravitating away
from the more pedestrian areas of the
genre, such as Slayer, who employed
a classic thrash sound that inﬂuenced
many. It became clear to me that the
genre had moved way beyond that
point in the intervening 20 years.
Before long I found a vast array
of new sounds, from the insane jazz
inspired stylings of Behold...The
Arctopus to the more minimal drone
metal approach of Sunn O))). To put it
bluntly, my taste became the subgenre
I later came to discover was quite
derisively known as Hipster metal,
a term I would ditch in favour of
‘cerebral metal’ or ‘intellectual metal,’
or something equally aggrandising.
A sizeable chunk of this music was
post metal such as Isis or Pelican,
in other words an ecletic genre with
tinges of post rock, metal, hardcore,
ambient and more.
As a hipster metal fan, or metal
hipster, I often enjoy looking back at
the review of the great albums of my
teens and discovering that they were
actually quite highly rated on sites
like Pitchfork. Isis’ Oceanic is a good
example of an album that managed
to shake oﬀ music fans’ studs and
leather metal stereotype to receive
some pretty widespread acclaim
across the board. Sadly though, one
thing me and Pitchfork didn’t see eye
to eye on was my favourite album of
all, Pelican’s City Of Echoes.
I sought out their review not
long ago, expecting to see suitably
gushing praise for an album that
managed to seamlessly move through
blistering and melodic, a true odyssey
of instrumental music, where the
guitar interplay of then guitarist
Laurent Schroeder-Lebec and Trevor
de Brauw was so full and incredibly
evocative that vocals would only have
corrupted the sound. Instead, what I
found was a rather scathing review
that opened with the line ‘Fire the
drummer.’ Allegedly drummer Larry
Herweg totally ruined the album. So
I dutifuly relistened in an attempt to
reconcile my love of the album with
this cynically cutting attack. Strangely
enough, though, my feelings were
no diﬀerent. Tracks like ‘Far From
Fields’ were still as anthemic and
mindshatteringly euphoric as ever,
and while I would argue that the album
is really all about the aforementioned
guitar interplay, the rhythm section
more than held its own.
All of this extensive personal
context may seem superﬂuous but
perfectly explains why it’s interesting
to me that the very ﬁrst tone heard
on their new Southern Lord released
album, Forever Becoming, comes from
the drums. Album opener ‘Terminal’
is all about the drums, in fact, with
a slowly developing beat smashes in
violently along with a blast of feedback
based dissonance that develops into
the guitar. For my money, the track
is right up there as one of their most
anthemic and strikingly beautiful
tracks in their back catalogue. In fact,
instead of simply carrying the album
along in the background, a job done
perfectly well in the past, the rhythm
section seems to have a much bigger
role, more often taking centre stage.
Perhaps this is explained by all
that’s changed with the band, who’ve
returned from a four year silence
interrupted by last year’s EP Ataraxia/
Taraxis, an EP that although posessing
remnants of the classic Pelican sound,
seemed a little more acousticly
motivated and somehow less organic,
although it was still pretty great if I’m
honest. Ataraxia/Taraxis proved to be
that last output involving founding
guitarist Schroeder-Lebec. So
between the large time lapse and the
addition of The Swan King guitarist
Dallas Thomas as a replacement for
I
Schroeder-Lebec, I think I wasn’t the
only one a bit apprehensive about what
might be produced. With ‘Terminal,’
however, all my concerns immediately
evaporated and I was lost once again
in the ethereal world of Pelican’s
music. Going further into the album
I started to encounter elements of
their previous work, and really it’s the
same old Pelican, it would be unfair
to suggest that they haven’t moved
on and incorporated new ideas but it
still consists of the style of riﬃng and
guitar leads that I’ve come to admire
so much.
Much like City of Echoes and
2009’s What We All Come To Need,
the band continues to use shorter
tracks, in the four to eight minute
range rather than the 10 minutes plus
region that largely prevailed on their
earlier albums such as their ﬁrst truly
classic album, The Fire In Our Throats
Will Beckon The Thaw. Tracks like
‘The Tundra’ even evoke memories of
their debut eﬀort, Australasia.
Where they’ve changed, though,
is that the grandiose guitar melodies
have lessened in their dominance, with
a much more sparing use augmented
with their crunchy riﬃng as usual and
the aforementioned increased role of
the rhythm section, or the Herwigs.
Bassist Bryan Herweg, whose tone is
spot on by the way is the force that
drives tracks like ‘Vestiges,’ and it’s
hard to argue that this doesn’t add a
new depth to the album, with their
guitar ﬂourishes all the more amazing
and emotive when they do happen.
A great example of how they’ve
moved on is ‘Threnody,’ a track that
starts oﬀ like it found its way out of
a Steve Roach album but gives way
to a particularly gigantic riﬀ that I’m
sure will be the inspiration of many
moshpits to come.
Almost 900 words in, it’s pretty
clear that I’ve avoided naming
highlights, and that’s because it’s a
dangerous game when it comes to
Pelican. Their musical complexity
means that at least ten listens are
needed to ﬁnally eradicate moments
that may have eluded me during my
previous listens.
True to form, though one track
that particularly moved me was the
closer ‘Perpetual Dawn,’ perhaps a
companion piece to earlier track
‘Immutable Dusk’ and arguably its
mirror image. ‘Immutable Dusk’
starts oﬀ pretty vicious and slowly
and melodically decays to a rumbling
bassline in a hugely Pelican-esque
moment as the drums and guitar join
in and build up in a really emotionally
resonant way (see: pretty much every
track on City Of Echoes) to a sludgy
behemoth, possibly the best riﬀ of the
album.
‘Perpetual Dawn’ does the
opposite starting oﬀ ambient before
kicking into a less restrained form. At
ten minutes, it’s the albums longest
track, and they use the space created
by this to really gradually move along,
with the heart wrenching journey
from ambient to a stoner-rock like riﬀ
to ambient rumblings complemented
by acoustic guitars to a hugely
anthemic riﬀ that’s brought to life
by a punchy drum line, giving a real
sense of catharsis until it slowly dies
down, replaced once again by acoustic
guitars as I nearly keel over with the
deep wave of melancholy it creates.
Despite its relative length, I can safely
say I felt pretty much every second
and for me that’s really what Pelican’s
music is about.
Pelican are perfect at the art of
balancing amazing technical ability
with the creativity to turn that all into
a cohesively structured song.They also
seem to manage to balance a keen
sense of experimentalism, within
their genre at least and a mash of great
riﬀ into something truly emotive,
and by the end of any Pelican release
I’m always left with a familiar spine-
tingling satisfaction along with a sense
of melancholy that it’s over already, and
Forever Becoming is no diﬀerent in that
respect.
I guess the summation of
everything I’ve said is that after a
turbulent and controversial few years
Pelican are back, blasting eardrums
like the best of them, presenting an
album of evolution rather than all
out revolution. Pelican will always
be Pelican and there’s absolutely
nothing I can fault with that fact.
I’m gonna close my review with the
simple sentiment – please keep the
drummer.

