21
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 01 NOV
MUSIC
Jake Bugg: The Bugg Brand
Simran Sansoy watches Jake Buggʼs sold out show at the O2
I
In 1956 a boy named Lewis Al-
len Reed was marched into a New
York county psychiatric hospital
by his parents and given electric
shock therapy to ‘cure’ his bisexual
instincts. The effect this had on his
future career is debatable, however
speaking in 1996 Reed recalled:
“They put the thing down your
throat so you don’t swallow your
tongue, and they put electrodes on
your head. That’s what was recom-
mended in Rockland State Hospital
to discourage homosexual feelings.
The effect is that you lose your mem-
ory and become a vegetable.”
In the early 1960s, whilst study-
ing at Syracuse University, Reed im-
mersed himself in experimental free
jazz and doo-wop of the 1950s. He
would use these influences to devise
AMS album of the week
Cut Copy stated on the standout track of
their previous album, “Blink and you’ll miss a
revolution”.Theoneandahalfyearsthathave
passed since then are, in the big scheme of
things,ablink.TheAustraliansynthpopquar-
tet now return with their fourth album Free
Your Mind, which whilst not quite a revolu-
tion, is certainly a revelation. Bad puns aside,
Free Your Mind will take you a on a nostalgic
journeytolate80sacid-house.
This album saw the band take
a new approach to writing music, with frontman Dan Whitford composing the foun-
dations of a new song every day for four months. He then took his creations back to
the band to piece together the album. To push their sound to new psychedelic levels,
producerDavidFridmann(Tame Impala/Flaming Lips)wassoughtoutformixingdu-
ties. When the product was polished, the launch of the album was teased by erecting
giantbillboardsinavarietyofexoticlocations;Mexico,Australia,Chile,and(obviously)
Wales.Andwhatdidthesebillboardssay?Well,FreeYourMind,ofcourse.
Thosegiantbillboardsemphasizethestatementthebandistryingtomake:FreeYour
Mindisn’tsimplythetitleoftherecord;itistheethosthattheywantlistenerstoadopt.
The band themselves describe the album as a “fantasy of the next youth revolution”,
drawing inspiration from the cultural explosions birthed from the fallout of the Viet-
namWarandthereignofMaggyThatcher.Thisfeel-goodvibeofliberalhedonismruns
through the record. Its effect on your mood can be staggering. And whilst listening to
it hasn’t converted me into a fully-fledged hippy, I do feel more predisposed to buying
“tie-dyed”products.
The album kicks-off with the title track, and you can’t help but compare the sound to
Primal Scream - the rhythm is locked into the stabbing keyboard chords and there are
vocal samples that shriek early 90s house. From this point, the album traverses differ-
ent dance environments. There are more mellow moments (‘Dark Corners & Mountain
Tops, Walking In The Sky), and some more obvious dancefloor classics (‘In Memory
Capsule’, ‘Footsteps’). I’m not a huge fan of the use of the short linking tracks, but oh
well, by the time my current favourite - ‘Meet Me In The House Of Love (DAT SAX)’ -
comesonI’mtoobusydancingtocare.
Formethough,FreeYourMinddoesn’treachthesamedizzyheightsastheir
previousrecord,Zonoscope.Thisisprobablyduetothefond,drunkenmemoriesIhave
of dancing along to those tracks when I caught the band at Bestival, a few years back.
I’ll have to catch them on their next tour. Oh, and one important piece of advice if
you’re going to see them - don’t forgot your dancing shoes.
Cut Copy – Free Your Mind
Lee Sewell
sical lyrics. Reed’s work was many
times hailed as the pre-curser to
punk, however the tenderness that
he portrayed in his vocals set him
far apart from anything that filled
the grimy, sweat-drenched bars of
London and New York over the fol-
lowing decade.
Drugs and alcohol were major
themes throughout much of his
life, with the album Berlin attesting
to that. Of his drug-taking he once
said:
“I take drugs just because, in the
20th century, in a technological age
living in the city, there are certain
drugs you have to take just to keep
yourself normal like a caveman, just
to bring yourself up or down.”
He eventually beat his demons
with drugs, replacing them with
T’ai Chi. However, they eventually
caught up with him when earlier
this year his health rapidly deterio-
rated, forcing him into a liver trans-
plant operation. Following the op he
proclaimed to be stronger than ever.
Unfortunately this did not last and
Reed passed away on 27th October.
Fifty seven years after Reed un-
derwent shock treatment, New York
City and attitudes towards sexuality
have changed markedly. Lou Reed
could claim to have played a part
in both, however the effect he had
on his many fans is what will live on
fondly in people all over the world.
guitar techniques that would under-
pin his playing style for decades. In
1964 Reed caught the attention of
some industry bigwigs by record-
ing a song parodying dance mu-
sic at the time, and playing it on a
guitar with all strings tuned to the
same note. Through this he was in-
troduced to John Cale who would
found The Velvet Underground with
him. 1967 saw the Velvet Under-
ground release their most famous
record: The Velvet Underground
and Nico, but by 1968 the band had
begun to crumble. Frustrated at the
lack of success they were receiving
(The Velvet Underground and Nico
reached 171 in the billboard chart)
and due to differences over the di-
rection of the band, Cale left. Short-
ly afterwards Reed followed suit and
began pursuing a solo career.
Reed’s 1972 record, Trans-
former, was
the peak of
his commer-
cial success.
Thanks part-
ly to working
with David
Bowie, his
music was
exposed to
a whole new
audience that
loved the dis-
tortion-laden
guitar and
the gritty, al-
most unmu-
Lou Reed’s Life
was lucky enough to get
the chance to see Jake
Bugg last Thursday at one
of his three sold out gigs
at the O2 Academy in
Brixton. I’m only familiar
with a handful of his songs, so I
was actually quite surprised by his
performance as a musician, singer
and songwriter. Some people say
he lacks charisma whilst perform-
ing, but I think they are confusing
the word charisma with arrogance.
Jake Bugg isn’t the kind of artist who
needs to jump around the stage or
smash a guitar to grab the audience’s
attention; his music does that for
him. Ok, so the only times he spoke
in between songs were to thank
the audience or to introduce the
next song, but like the majority of
the other audience members, I was
there to enjoy his musical talent and
that I certainly did.
Jake started with a few of his
well-known songs such as ‘There’s a
Beast and We All Feed It’ and ‘Seen
it All’. The energy was great, with the
crowd loving every minute. The set
was simple, Jake standing with his
guitar and support from a bassist and
drummer. The lighting was cool; the
theme of the song and overall ambi-
ence was changed depending on what
colour lights were used. The venue
itself could have been nicer, but then
again as soon as the place is dark you
can look past the dirt and general
badly maintained décor (mainly be-
cause you can’t actually see it). Half
way through the gig Jake began to
introduce songs from his new album,
‘Shangri La’. The weirdest thing was
how diﬀerent his singing voice is to
his speaking voice, probably why he
didn’t talk much. The ﬁrst song he
played from the new album was ‘Pine
Trees’, one of his more mellow songs.
This was followed by ‘Song About
Love’ and ‘Slide’. The tone was soon
picked up again though when he per-
formed ‘Greenman’ and another one
from his new album, ‘Kingpin’. By this
point most people were up dancing or
simply swaying along. Of course, the
one Jake ended with had to be the in-
famous ‘Lightning Bolt’, the song that
kick started his career. There wasn’t a
single person who wasn’t up on their
feet, a great way to end the gig!
If you’re looking for a chilled
night of music, then deﬁnitely go see
and see Jake Bugg. Even if you don’t
know many of his songs, you will
be wanting to listen to more of him
by the time you get home. The best
thing about Jake is the fact that he
can perform a wide range of music,
from the fun upbeat songs, to the
slower more relaxed ones. Coming
from Nottingham he’s been described
as an East Midlands Dylan, although
to most he would probably be recog-
nised as a product of the last 20 years
of British guitar pop.
It’s refreshing to see artists like
Jake Bugg around, he is entertaining
and talented, but the fame hasn’t got
to his head and probably won’t any
time soon. Unlike other overrated
artists such as One Direction, he’s a
genuinely modest guy and I expect
he will do pretty well in the future if
the preview from his new album is
anything to go by. Going from play-
ing the BBC Introducing stage at the
2011 Glastonbury Festival to selling
out all of his London shows at the age
of 19 is pretty amazing.
Jake’s new song ‘What Doesn’t Kill
You’ is out now on iTunes and his
album Shangri La is to be released
November 18.

