23
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 01 NOV
FILM
The Past
Director: Asghar Farhadi
Writers: Asghar Farhadi,
Massoumeh Lahidji (adaptation)
Starring: Bérénice Bejo, Tahar
Rahim, Ali Mosaffa
Runtime: 130 minutes
The past is never where you think you left it
The original Cloudy was a wacky,
high-energy romp through the world
of Flint Lockwood (Bill Hader), inven-
tor extraordinaire (well, if you count
rat birds and spray-on shoes as de-
serving of such a title) and his creation
of the FLDSMDFR (no, I am not spell-
ing out that acronym for you, go look
it up), a machine which takes water
and turns into food. Any food.
Obviously that all went horribly
Revenge of the leftovers
wrong (and yet so hilariously right),
and the sequel picks up where the first
film left off: Swallow Falls (Lockwood’s
home island) is covered in enormous
leftovers, and the entire population is
to be relocated. So far, so predictable.
The main antagonist (in the shape of
a thinly-veiled mockery of Apple and
the late, great Steve Jobs) is intro-
duced, Flint goes to work for them,
blah, blah, blah. Of course, once the
old gang return to the island, things
get considerably more interesting…
I admit, that really doesn’t do the
opening 20 or so minutes justice. De-
spite operating on a fairly flimsy plot
(which works for a kids’ film, so I’m
not convinced there’s much point in
complaining), the film kicks off by
generating consistent laughter, be it
Cloudy with a
Chance of Meatballs
2
Directors: Cody Cameron, Kris Pearn
Writers: Judi Barrett, Ron Barrett,
John Francis Daley, Jonathan M.
Goldstein, Phil Lord, Chris Miller,
Erica Rivinoja
Starring: (voices) Bill Hader, Anna
Faris, James Caan, Will Forte, Andy
Samberg, Benjamin Bratt, Neil
Patrick Harris
Runtime: 107 minutes
Certificate: U
Jack Steadman
Writer
Fred Fyles
Star Writer
What a difference a decade can make.
Just 10 years ago, director Asghar
Farhadi had yet to release his first film,
but today he is one of the hottest con-
temporary Iranian directors around.
Every film he has created has won
rafts of awards at various festivals; his
last film A Separation, won critical ac-
claim across the board, and beat off
stiff competition to win the Academy
Award for Best Foreign Language Film
in 2011. He is now back again, with a
film that explores the hidden drama
within everyday lives.
The Past is like a box of forgotten
love letters, a series of scenes that
bring back happy memories, but also
open old wounds. Berenice Bejo,
whose breakout role as Peppy Miller
in the silent film The Artist merited
a nomination for Best Supporting Ac-
tress, and Ali Mosaffa star as a mar-
ried couple going through a divorce.
Having been separated for four years,
Ahmad (Mosaffa) returns to Paris
from Iran to finalise the legal divorce
from his soon-to-be ex-wife Marie
(Bejo); upon arrival he finds that Ma-
rie has not booked a hotel for him, and
instead he must stay with her, her two
daughters from a previous marriage,
and Fouad, a young boy who is the son
of Marie’s current beau Samir, played
by Tahar Ramin - best known for his
role in the 2009 film Un Prophete. We
soon find out that Samir is still mar-
ried, but his wife is in a coma follow-
ing a suicide attempt, and has been for
the past year or so.
This complicated web of relation-
ships is put under strain, both from
Ahmad’s visit, and the dark secret Ma-
rie’s daughter Lucie has been hiding;
as the film progresses relations break
down, and the family is brought to
breaking point. While Ahmad is an-
noyed at having to endure exposure
to both Samir, and his son, the mar-
ried couple relationship that begins to
re-emerge between Ahmad and Ma-
rie throughout the film makes Samir
feel like a stranger in the house; there
is one particularly brilliant scene in
which he is mistaken by a delivery
man for a handyman, at the house for
a job, and is left standing bewildered
in the garden
Bejo is stunning as Marie; both sym-
pathetic and maleficent, she cuts a
emotional but brittle figure. Eagre to
anger her husband, she forces him to
endure the presence of her new boy-
friend, and just before they finalise the
divorce tells him that she is pregnant.
These actions are what begin to drive
the family apart, yet the motives driv-
ing Marie remain understandable,
and the audience can easily empathise
with her. She is a woman on the edge,
taking to chain smoking as things
begin to pile up on top of her. Bejo
manages this multi-faceted role with
nuance and ease, giving up a wonder-
fully visceral performance that makes
it unsurprising that she picked up the
Best Actress award at Cannes. Ali
Mosaffa’s restrained, almost impassive
presence becomes a rock upon which
the relationships rest, making the end
scenes, in which he is at his most en-
by sight gags, general slapstick, re-
curring jokes or (most importantly)
simultaneously awful/hilarious puns.
Oh, the food puns. Once the action
moves onto the island, things only get
punnier, with the ridiculously over-
sized array of the things dreamt up by
the writers and designers coming into
full force. There are some fairly obvi-
ous (but still beautiful) cutaway gags
that accompany lines such as “there’s
a leek in the boat!” (it’s in the trailer,
I’ve spoilt nothing here), but the sheer
quantity on display here means laugh-
ter is guaranteed frequently through-
out the film.
The voice-acting is pretty much
spot-on, although the replacement of
Mr T with Terry Crews as Earl jars
slightly if you were a fan of the original,
and Chester V (Will Forte) is such an
incredibly irritating antagonist you’d
almost rather the film just focused on
the food animals and ignored the plot
entirely. Which, to be fair, does hap-
pen for a significant chunk of its run-
ning time.
The animation itself is beautiful,
and the designs are near-faultless, al-
though the 3D (of course it’s in 3D,
what did you expect?) is almost a com-
plete and utter waste, adding nothing
to the film other than a little extra
depth in some shots.
Coming it at 95 minutes, Cloudy
never manages to out-stay its wel-
come, and although it’s never quite
as original as its predecessor it’s still a
great deal better than many of its peers
(it’s certainly more endearing than
Pixar’s recent output, which is a sen-
tence I never expected to type), and
it’s certainly worth a watch, whether
you’re a five-year-old or a fifth-year
student. Just don’t go in expecting any
real take-home messages other than
more food puns than you can possibly
remember.
raged, all the more shocking.
Like A Separation, The Past is a film
that deals with the baggage that rela-
tionships can bring - particularly how
they end. The film carries the air of an
epic tragedy about it, and the audience
can foresee the storm clouds looming
on the horizon, but it never feels bleak.
Under Farhadi’s direction, the film is a
grown-up, serious dissection of rela-
tionships; despite some moments that
threaten to spill over into melodrama,
The Past is definitely one to watch for
this year’s Academy Awards.

