26 FRIDAY 01 NOV
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2014 at the Oscars: Be
Lupita Nyong’o (12 Years a Slave)
One of the many aspects the critics
are raving about in 12 Years a Slave is
the flawless performances of its out-
standing cast. The name that sticks
out in this category is Lupita Nyong’o’s
powerful, unforgettable debut per-
formance. Her role is heartbreaking,
one that is played with maximum in-
tensity by the Kenyan actress who has
been the talk of awards circuits. This
category is certainly favourable to up-
and-coming actresses with first-time
nominees having no trouble winning
the award in the end. You go Lupita
Nyong’o.
Oprah Winfrey (The Butler)
So talk-show host Oprah made a wel-
come return to the big screens this
year (her first on-screen role in which
she does not play herself in around
15 years), as part of Lee Daniel’s star-
studded cast in which she plays the
wife of a White House butler. She goes
through plenty throughout the film,
loneliness, extra-marital affair, alco-
holism, family feud, loss of a son, and
in every single one of her scene she is
quietly affirming and effective. “Eve-
rything you are, and everything you
have, is because butler” she says, in
the film’s big highlight moment.
Julia Roberts (August: Osage County)
Already awarded for her efforts by the
Hollywood Film Awards, Julia Rob-
erts seems to be in an award-winning
mood after quite a lengthy period of
starring in films that perhaps weren’t
quite deserving of her star quality. The
family drama she stars in is based on
the Pulitzer Prize winning play that
brings the Weston family together
after a tragedy. Armed with crackling
dialogue, heated drama and outland-
ish dark comedy, the cast gives it their
all, and Roberts’ energetic perfor-
mance, in which she literally strangles
Meryl Streep, is gaining attention.
June Squibb (Nebraska)
The best scene-stealer of this year is
hands down won by June Squibb an
actress who has been steadily work-
ing away on the big screens since the
1990s and is only now winning some
love for her brilliant comedic perfor-
mance in Alexander Payne’s heart-
warming road-trip drama. She has no
trouble speaking her mind and with
her blunt honesty comes a guaranteed
bellyful of laughs, whilst she’s also an
endlessly supportive, loving and car-
ing wife and mother at the same time.
She’s simply a joy to watch, deserves a
spot in the final five.
December is just around the corner,
and film studios are lining up their
critically-lauded films to take part
in this year’s much-anticipated Os-
car race. As with any year, there are
strong contenders in every field and
it’s certainly too early to be betting on
a winner.
So over the next few weeks, Felix
Film will be giving you a breakdown of
the actors, actresses and films that will
be grabbing the headlines in the near
future; but this is in no way a definitive
list, as some of the films haven’t even
been released over here yet.
And kicking off our feature is the
Best Supporting Actress category.
Ready...
Steady...
Go!

