27
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 01 NOV
FILM
est Supporting Actress
Sally Hawkins (Blue Jasmine)
Firmly holding her very own against
Cate Blanchett (who gives the perfor-
mance of her career - but more about
that in a future issue) is Sally Hawk-
ins, the poorer, younger sister of Blan-
chett’s Jasmine, i.e. the Stella character
of A Streetcar Named Desire. Not only
does she nail the American accent,
she’s a delightful, quirky addition to
one of the best Woody Allen films of
recent years. As a kind-hearted, for-
giving, free spirit living her life as best
she can with the resources available to
her, her Ginger strikes up a stark con-
trast with Blanchett’s Jasmine.
Léa Seydoux (Blue is the Warmest
Colour)
Strong, charismatic, and confident are
traits the gutsy Léa Seydoux brings to
the controversial French Palme d’Or
winner. The sizzling passion shared
between the two actresses of this film
(the other being the equally outstand-
ing Adèle Exarchopoulos) are at the
heart of this memorable love story,
as every aspect of their relationship
is laid out in the open for the audi-
ence. Seydoux is both cool and chic,
with her raw intensity elevating this
to something more than a mere saucy,
erotic romp.
Octavia Spencer (Fruitvale Station)
She may have won her Best Support-
ing Actress Oscar for a largely co-
medic role in The Help, but Octavia
Spencer’s name this year is certainly in
consideration for her dramatic vigour
in this Sundance breakout hit that was
also screened in Cannes where it re-
ceived warm reception. As the mother
of a man who we know from the be-
ginning will be shot unlawfully in the
back by a mistaken police officer, her
endless sacrificing and hardworking
nature become all the more painful to
watch, with her tough, no-nonsense
style exuding love and warmth.
Melissa Leo (Prisoners)
Now who saw that twist coming?
With Melissa Leo, who so easily fits
into spooky, malicious, sinister roles,
starring in that massively pivotal role
in this kidnap drama might have been
a dead giveaway as to the true nature
of her character and the ending, but
Leo always has that darkly magnetic
appeal: is it the voice? Is it the looks?
It’s hard to say what specifically but
she gets the job done and it’s one she
does well time and time again. She so
effortlessly switches between a vulner-
able old lady and a sadistic, grouchy
kidnapper that it’s scary.
Carey Mulligan (Inside Llewyn Davis)
Not only is she entertaining in a highly
amusing, fiery form, she shows she can
also sing, which is always a plus when
it comes to the awards season. Estab-
lishing herself to be quite the diverse
actress, Carey Mulligan has handled
a wide variety of roles over the years
and her most recent, in a movie by
the Coen brothers, albeit brief, is one
that stands out. She absurdly missed
out on a nomination for her work
in Shame so here’s hoping her work
doesn’t go unnoticed this year. Every
time she yells out the word “asshole”
at the protagonist? Priceless...
Kristin Scott Thomas (Only God
Forgives)
It takes a special kind of mother to
comment on the sizes of her grown-
up sons’ penises. And that special kind
of mother is Kristin Scott Thomas in
Nicolas Winding Refn’s dizzying, baf-
fling new film. Thomas is full of dry,
dark wit, as the drug-dealing, manipu-
lative, incestuous mastermind behind
her family’s ultimate undoing. Her
performance is nothing short of jaw-
droppingly shocking, with awkward,
uncomfortable laughs abound. She
alone is a good reason to check the
film out.
Scarlett Johansson (Her)
Now here’s a slightly strange one. Jo-
hansson doesn’t actually appear in the
film. Word is she was never even on
the set of Spike Jonze’s new quirky
romantic dramedy that sees Joaquin
Phoenix falling in love with a piece
of technology voiced by Johansson.
Whether the awards campaign behind
her voice performance is actually a se-
rious one or not waits to be seen, but
to have a memorable on-screen ap-
pearance with only your voice takes
considerable skill. With such tough
competition ahead, it would be a sur-
prise if this quirky choice got in.
Vanessa Redgrave (Song for Marion)
Her rendition of Cyndi Lauper’s ‘True
Colours’ will reduce many to tears, as
her frail and touching performance
is simply first-class. It’s been a while
since this great veteran has been given
attention in the awards circuit, and it
will take a lot for a small, independ-
ent film that was released quite a
while ago to make some sort of impact
at this stage of the race, but given her
name and standing in the industry,
she just might be able to squeeze in.
Hope they see her true colours shin-
ing through, because really, that’s why
we love her.
Naomie Harris (Mandela: Long Walk
to Freedom)
Is the new Miss Moneypenny of the
Bond franchise looking at a possible
Oscar nomination? While most per-
formance-related praise of the film is
reserved for the real star of the Nelson
Mandela biopic Idris Elba, Naomie
Harris has also been given kind words
to describe her interpretation of Win-
nie Mandela. When it comes to such
impassioned characters played with
vigour and intensity by actors, it’s dif-
ficult for the awards to ignore. She
may be a relative newcomer, but with
such a big role, anything’s possible.
Jennifer Lawrence (American Hustle)
Could last year’s Oscar winner be
looking at another nomination this
year? She’s once again paired up with
David O. Russell in her new film here,
and although very few people have
seen it, the buzz surrounding the
movie is already quite substantial. Plus
everyone in Hollywood seems to be
in love with the young Jennifer Law-
rence who can clearly do no wrong.
She’s funny, confident and as far as
the trailer goes, her sassy vibe seems
to really suit her. With a release date
in late December, the studio certainly
has faith - fingers crossed.

