28 FRIDAY 01 NOV
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Grandmaster
Director: Kar Wai Wong
Writers: Kar Wai Wong, Jingzhi Zou,
Haofeng Xu
Starring: Tony Leung Chiu Wai,
Zhang Ziyi
Runtime: 108 minutes
Certification: PG-13 (USA)
Fred Fyles
Star Writer
The Grandmaster cut up by Weinstein
It has been a difficult couple of
months for Harvey Weinstein. As well
as recutting his documentary of J.D.
Salinger after it was savaged in reviews,
heisnowengagedwithargumentswith
the directors of both Grace of Monaco
and Snowpiercer over his liberal
use of editing that has earned him
the moniker Harvey ‘Scissorhands’.
And so it is perhaps unsurprising
that he seems a little defensive when
he goes up alongside BFI director
Clare Stewart to introduce this year’s
Surprise Film - The Grandmaster by
legendary auteur Wong Kar-Wai. ‘We
tried to keep it as chronological as we
could’, Weinstein explained ‘but at the
end of the day, who gives a shit?’. Oh
dear. What follows is 100 minutes of
cinema that - although beautiful - is
off paced, confusing, and a little bit
disappointing.
I first feel like I should point out that
what we are shown is the American
edit, made for Western audiences, that
cuts the original film down by about 45
minutes, while adding in a number of
scenes not in the original. It would be
unfair to Kar-Wai to pretend that this
was his original vision for the project,
and since there is no UK release date
on the horizon as of yet, I would urge
readers to order an imported DVD
from Asia in order to watch the film in
its original glory.
With that addendum out of the way,
onto the film itself. The Grandmaster
tells the story of Ip Man, played by Kar-
Wai regular Tony Leung, a legendary
master of Wing Chun, a form of
martial arts originating from Southern
China. Ip Man is perhaps most
famous for training Bruce Lee, but
this point is only touched upon at the
end of a film which explores his early
life, while adding a few historically
inaccurate embellishments. In a series
of snapshots, we see him become
an expert at Wing Chun, and solve
the conflict between Northern and
Southern schools, before the Second
World War robs him of his family, and
he is exiled in Hong Kong. Running
parallel to this, we have the story of
Gong Er (Zhang Ziyi), the beautiful
daughter of a Northern grandmaster,
and a fierce fighter herself. She must
avenge her father, and continue her
legacy, but is ultimately also forced to
stay in Hong Kong. Their two paths
cross at various times throughout the
film, and a sort-of love story emerges,
although this is cut down in the edit in
favour of a more action packed film.
There really needs to be a word to
describe Wong Kar-Wai films - Kar-
Wai-an? Kar-Wai-esque? - since his
films share an arresting visual style.
The entire film is beautifully shot,
using every weapon in Kar-Wai’s
arsenal: the choppy scenes familiar
from Chungking Express, the garish
colourscapes of Happy Together, even
the warm film grain used in his 2000
masterpiece In the Mood for Love gets a
look in. The fight scenes are especially
well done, climaxing with a scene at
the train station which is among the
most beautiful pieces of cinema I have
ever seen. Sound, sight, and colour
all come together to create a perfect
balance that is completely novel, but
also recognisably Wong Kar-Wai.
While the stylish martial arts theme
immediately invites comparisons to
Ang Lee’s Crouching Tiger, Hidden
Dragon, this film does not have the
same lightness of touch. It is a heavy
film, with ponderous questions about
the nature of love and life, but that
does not make it a bad one. In fact, it
is refreshing to see such gravitas being
brought to a genre that has had to
endure countless terribly trashy films.
Tony Leung gives a characteristically
restrained performance as Ip Man,
one full of nuance and subtlety, while
Zhang Ziyi is positively effervescent
- a luminous presence on the screen,
who manages to light up any scene
she is in. Unfortunately, despite the
incredible performances, direction,
and cinematography from Philippe
Le Sourd, The Grandmaster seems
to be missing something. Kar-Wai is
famed for his unique, somewhat novel
approach to filming, in which he will
reshoot some scenes again and again,
Imperial Cinema
Elysium stars Matt Damon and is
created by Neill Blomkamp, the
brains behind 2009’s thought-
provoking District 9 that despite
sci-fi leanings had its roots firmly
grounded in reality. What is Elysi-
um about? Blomkamp sticks to what
he knows best, crafting another
dystopian work exploring polemical
issues such as wealth distribution,
health care and immigration by
focusing on downbeat ex car thief
Max (Matt Damon) who lives in a
world ravaged by overpopulation
whilst the 1% reside on a separate
luxurious space station. An accident
at the factory where Max works
exposes him to a lethal dose of ra-
diation that gives him only days to
live. Max’s only chance of survival
is the precarious mission to reach
Elysium.
The Wolverine sees the return of
everyone’s favourite chin curtain-
donning, wifebeater-wearing X-
Men(Man?). Wolverine aka Logan
aka Hugh Jackman is tormented by
grief/guilt after the events of X-Men:
The Last Stand. He doesn’t have
long to mope around before he trav-
els to Asia and ends up being chased
all over Japan by ninjas. There’s also
a bit of a love story too and a nice
little ‘to be continued…’ tie-in to the
other X-Men series starring J Law et
al.
Elysium: Tuesday 05/11 18:30,
Thursday 07/11 21:00
The Wolverine: Tuesday 05/11
20:45, Thursday 07/11 18:30
Buy membership online. It’s only a
£5 a year and guarantees you cheap-
er films and one free film!
Next week: Mud (Post-Grad
screening) and Kick-Ass 2
before scrapping them and coming up
with new ones on the spot. Up until
now, his films have managed to have
this sense of energy, while editing has
maintained the pacing, but in this film
that is completely off. Some plot lines
whiz by like speeding trains, while
others linger without being truly
resolved; characters are introduced as
if they have great importance, before
never being seen again. The result
is a film that feels both too fast, and
sluggish; it is a strange experience.
In the past the BFI has been
criticised for showing safe, English-
language films with broad popular
appeal; when Clare Stewart asked the
audience what they thought the film
was going to be, she was met with a
barrage of names that included The
Butler, August: Osage County, and Her,
which could all - for better or worse -
be described as ‘Oscar bait’. The fact
that we got to see The Grandmaster
was certainly a surprise, but perhaps
not a welcome one and during the
screening around 20 people walked
out. Still, The Grandmaster is by no
means a bad film, and the recut has
been widely criticised across the
board for being unrepresentative
of the real film. With that in mind, I
anxiously await my Amazon parcel
containing the Chinese version of the
film; hopefully it will be a real surprise
- and a good one this time.

