30 FRIDAY 01 NOV
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arrow: Season 2
The Amell family’s sup
John Park Television Editor
Things were looking good for Starling
City and its masked vigilante hero at
the end of its highly successful first-
season run. Tommy Merlyn (Colin
Donnell) was crushed under a build-
ing (hurrah) leaving this less than use-
less individual to say his final parting
words to his best friend Oliver Queen
(Stephen Amell) aka the Green Arrow.
Tommy’s evil father Malcolm (John
Barrowman) was also killed off (this
deserves another hurrah) although
not before setting off an earthquake
machine that destroyed a significant
portion of the city leaving 500+ peo-
ple dead. The only person they forgot
to kill off was Thea Queen (Willa Hol-
land), Oliver’s immature little sister
with very few redeeming features. But
oh well, there’s always room in season
2 for more deaths in Starling City...
right?
But Arrow is quickly looking to be-
come a boring dull procedural the
first season tried so desperately to
avoid. New additions to the cast aren’t
exactly working out, and isn’t it about
time we tied up the loose ends relating
to Oliver’s 5-year absence storyline
on the mysterious Asian island? Yes,
that’s where he went through rigorous
training and became the buff superhe-
ro he is now. Do we really need to in-
troduce more and more mastermind-
like villains to fill up the time?
As season 2 opens, months have
passed, and Oliver is sulking on the
very same island he spent his years
in disappearance. Felicity (Emily Bett
Rickards) and John Diggle (David
Ramsey) come to bring him back to
the city, saying that they need him to
restore order and balance to a place
where everyone is going mental fol-
lowing the disaster. His mother Moira
(Susanna Thompson) is in prison
having played an instrumental part
in Malcolm Merlyn’s plot, Thea’s in
charge of Oliver’s nightclub (urgh),
where she’s being actively sought af-
ter by a superhero-wannabe pretty
boy Roy Harper (Colton Haynes) who
we know will end up as some sort of
a welcome sidekick but is taking a
mighty long time to actually show us
something impressive about himself.
Detective Quentin Lance (Paul
Blackthorne) has been demoted to a
regular police officer, and his daugh-
ter Laurel (Katie Cassidy), a tough-as-
nails lawyer who once used to work
providing legal aid to the poor is now
at the district attorney’s office, pros-
ecuting criminals, whilst also holding
a grudge against Green Arrow for a
reason that doesn’t make sense and
making it her life mission to track him
down.
None of the major characters are
where we’d ideally want them to be.
Oliver’s a moody, hesitant hero who
now has a philosophy to not kill any-
one, supposedly in an attempt to hon-
our his memory of Tommy (huh?),
Laurel is on a quest no-one wants her
to be involved in (she should trade in
her lawyer suits for a cop uniform be-
cause she can definitely hold her own
against a fight), Diggle is as smug as
ever constantly clashing with Oliver
on how to handle a situation, how
Moira’s not ended up dead yet in her
prison cell is a mystery, Roy has po-
tential although the writers are doing
nothing to develop him in anyway,
Lance is and Thea’s...breathing.
Trapped in the flashback plot is
the younger version of Oliver Queen
who is quickly coming to grips with
his studies in martial arts and archery
(yes we GET how he learned to fight -
no need to take us back to the island
every single episode), as well as his de-
veloping romantic feelings for Shado
(Celina Jade), a female warrior and his
growing bromance with Slade Wilson
(Manu Bennett)
Fun, bombastic action is no more,
as Oliver finds himself in action se-
quences that are either too difficult
to follow in all the smoke and dark-
ness or are far too simple and generic
to be truly enjoyed. He is a physically
capable fighter as everyone who’s seen
season 1 knows, but his assets aren’t
being put to good use here. Gratuitous
shirtless shots are shown like clock-
work in every single episode, and
frankly it’s a method that is getting
quickly tiresome.
Only Felicity has her moments every
episode, as without her contribution
the vigilante wouldn’t have a leg to
stand on. He may wield a bow and a
set of arrows that can do a variety of
fancy tricks, but without her brains
he wouldn’t even know where to start
when it comes to catching the bad
guys. Plus her not-too-subtle crush on
Oliver, one that will go on no further
than being a mere schoolgirl crush (let
us hope), is often amusing to watch for
sure.
Not everything is a total disaster
at the moment. With a new super-
hero in town (action heroine Summer
Glau made a very brief appearance
in an earlier episode of this new sea-
son - hint, hint), interesting dynamic
could be struck up between the two.
Will they work together or will they
be on opposite sides? Only time well
tell and the sooner Roy Harper suits
up for action, the better, because all
he’s doing now is handling luggage
being Thea’s new pet dog. And let’s
get on with Moira’s trial and put that
behind us before the midseason finale,
because a season-long legal battle is
not something audiences want to put
up with in a superhero show. “Arrow”
has certainly stumbled into the soph-
omore slump phase with its first few
episodes, but there is still hope left to
salvaging its reputation.

