FRIDAY 01 NOV 3
NEWS
Editors: Aemun Reza,
Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FreshHairdressers
Men’s cuts £22 (normally £35)
All over clipper cuts from £10
Women’s cut and rough dry £28
Women’s cut and salon finish
blow-dry £38 (normally £55)
Highlights from only £40
Sorry CASH only!
FRESH hairdressers are offering the
best haircuts, prices and service in
South Kensington.
Please call 0207 823 8968 to
book an appointment and ask for a
student discount. Please bring your
studentIDwelookforwardtoseeing
you.
We use the best styling products
fromWella, Moroccan Oil, L’Oreal.
Student Discounts At
Appointments available Tuesday to
Saturdays 9.30 to 6.30
We are only 70 metres from South
Kensingtonstationat15aHarrington
road, South Kensington, SW7 3ES
0207 823 8968.
Check out our website:
www.freshhairdressers.co.uk
70m from South Kensington tube
Other News
As you may or may not have heard, the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson
will be attending a “People’s Question Time on campus in the Great Hall
on Tuesday 5th November. Tickets have sold out, but if you’re not lucky
enough to have conﬁrmed entry you could always stick around the cash
machines while waiting for an autograph! The Mayor will be answering
questions from the public, so bring your complaints!
Boris?
Following a month of negotiation and deliberation about pay, the
University and College Union (UCU), Unison and Unite unions
have decided to stage a one-day national strike across the country’s
universities during Halloween.
While the strike action varied betwewen universities it can be
conﬁrmed that teaching at Liverpool John Moores University
and Liverpool Hope University was cancelled and the Chemistry
department at Loughborough was closed. The strikes have been
triggered by poor pay conditions for teaching staﬀ and possible
pension changes, often in contrast to rising salaries of the top posts.
Lecturers on strike
For those of you who were still wondering, as of yesterday the infamous
“Downing Street aﬀair” that caused a three day whirlwind in the press earlier
this year (with injunctions, rumours and all the bells and whistles) has ﬁnally
berevealed.Incourtyesterday,duringthe‘phone-hacking’trialitwasrevealed
that the guilty couple were Rebekah Brooks and Andy Coulson, two media
power brokers with substantial inﬂuence in the government. Apparently the
aﬀair had be ongoing since its conception in 1998. Awkward for No. 10...
The Downing Affair
Lord Darzi elected by
Institute of Medicine
Sponsored Editorial
Nida Mahmud
News Editor
BBC
SOURCE: HUFFINGTON POST, BBC
SOURCE: BLOG PRESTON
the changes would be a “drop in
the Ocean” compared to the fees
and paperwork already faced by
international students, the consensus
among Council members was in
favour of Goldsmith’s proposals.
International Oﬃcer Nida Mahmud
commented on how she believed that
“we should care for the welfare of
students” and that the ﬂat £200 NHS
fee was unfair since it would “aﬀect
the poorest the hardest”. Overseas
Societies Committee
Chair Charmain Li added that
she had already had many negative
responses concerning the Bill from
international students.
Despite the general support there
were concerns that the Council
paper could be improved – with
Goldsmith admitting that he had
not carried out a comprehensive
survey of the opinions of Imperial
international students towards the
bill. The Council therefore decided
not to accept the paper but instead
to mandate a working group, led by
Deputy President (Welfare) Marissa
Lewis, to research the issue further
and present a new paper, with a clear
plan on how to campaign against the
sections of the Bill which would aﬀect
Imperial students negatively, at the
next Council meeting on November
12.
Since the Council meeting David
Goldsmith has released the following
statement:
“On presentation of my paper
on the Immigration Bill proposals
Council engaged in a lengthy and
lively debate on the matter. Some
excellent views were expressed but
consensus was diﬃcult to reach.
This was particularly the case with
regard to the implantation of a
£200 annual NHS fee. Therefore
we decided that Marissa, Deputy
President (Welfare), will be heading
a group to investigate international
students’ opinions more thoroughly
and reviewing the paper- potentially
separating the resolves. I’m looking
forward to seeing how this pans out.
Should the immigration proposals
be rejected by Council there is a
lot of lobbying that we as a student
body can engage in.”
All members of the Union are
welcome to attend the November
meeting, which will be held at 18:30 in
the Union Dining Hall, to voice their
opinions. Additionally, if you would
like to contribute your views to this
debate you can take a 5-minute Union
survey: tinyurl.com/ImBilSurv
Maciej Matuszewski
from page 1...
Next Union
Committee Meeting
Clubs, Societies & Projects
Board
5th November
18:00 Union Dining Hall
Tours Meeting
P
rofessor Lord Ara Darzi
has been elected by the
Institute of Medicine
(IOM), which is the health
sector of the US National
Academy of Sciences.
Becoming a member of the IOM is a
high honour in the health and medical
ﬁeld. Last week, 70 new members
and 10 new foreign associates were
elected for the IOM. The IOM
announced that the selections were
due to their “outstanding professional
achievement and commitment to
service”.
Professor Darzi commented that
it’s a “great honour to be elected as
a foreign associate of the Institute of
Medicine. It is a rare privilege and
reﬂects the hard work of the team that
I work with.”
Harvey V. Fineberg, IOM President
said that
“It is an honour to welcome our highly
distinguished colleagues to the Institute
of Medicine. These individuals have
inspired us through their achievements
in research, teaching, clinical work,
and other contributions to the medical
ﬁeld. Their knowledge and skills will
deeply enrich the IOM.
”
Professor Darzi is an Honorary
Consultant Surgeon at Imperial
College Hospital NHS Trust. He holds
the Paul Hamlyn Chair of Surgery at
Imperial College London, the institute
of Cancer Research and the Royal
Marsden Hospital.
TheresearchundertakenbyProfessor
Darzi is focussed on attaining the best
surgical practice using innovative
surgery and improving patient safety
and the quality of healthcare. He has
published over 800 peer-reviewed
research papers.
Lord Ara Darzi
SOURCE: IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON

