31
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 01 NOV
TELEVISION
John Park Television Editor
The Tomorrow
People: Season 1
perhero CW takeover
The new species of “homo superiors”
seem to have everything figured out.
They possess the special powers of the
three T’s: telekinesis, teleportation,
and telepathy. Although putting a
slight damper on things is the fact that
they can’t actually kill. It’s no fun for
them, and it’s certainly no fun for us.
Before he figures out who he really
is, Stephen Jameson (Robbie Amell)
thinks he has a problem: he keeps
hearing voices in his head, he can’t fo-
cus, and he’s quite the wild child when
it comes to school. But he soon dis-
covers that he’s a part of The Tomor-
row People, individuals with special-
ised powers listed above, who are also
hunted down by Ultra, a powerful gov-
ernment group that aims to neutralise
such advanced mutants for fear of any
misuse of power or further mutations
that may enhance their abilities even
more. The Tomorrow People live hid-
den away underground actively trying
to find new recruits before Ultra can
get their evil hands on them, and it’s
lucky that John (Luke Mitchell), Cara
(Peyton List), and Russell (Aaron Yoo)
found Stephen first, as he too, would
have faced a nasty ending.
When it comes to portraying the
three T’s that would be immensely
useful in everyday life, The Tomorrow
People does have fun in incorporating
them to the expensive-looking action
scenes. It’s difficult to know how sus-
tainable such scenes are on a freshman
television show’s budget, but for the
time being it’s fun to watch our he-
roes and villains zap their way around,
using their force field telekinesis and
communicate through mind-reading
and secret call-outs.
Plotwise it echoes the beginning ep-
isodes of Alias and Nikita as Stephen
ends up as a double agent posing to
work for Ultra and its leader Jedikiah
Price (Mark Pellegrino) whilst secretly
feeding information to the good guys.
In fact there isn’t a whole lot of secre-
cy when it comes to what everyone’s
thinking since everything is so clearly
spelt out for the audience, and as with
most action/adventure/spy shows that
go down this route, it’s hard not to
wonder why the characters, especially
the antagonists, don’t take the easy
way of proceeding with intelligence.
But ultimately it’s the good guys we’re
supposed to be rooting for, so it’s
probably a good thing the villains tend
to ignore the best,j most obvious solu-
tions available.
Nothing imaginative or original
takes place when it comes to charac-
terisation: Stephen has daddy issues
(is there a superhero who doesn’t
struggle with this plot thread?), who
abandoned the family leaving him
with his mother Marla (Sarah Clarke)
and younger brother Luca (Jacob
Kogan). Time spent with his new
best buddies brings up questions as
to Stephen’s whereabouts, ones he
dodges well whilst concealing his se-
cret identity from his family and also
from his best friend Astrid (Madeleine
Mantock). There is also a love triangle
brewing, something that no American
network television series can do with-
out, especially the CW network aimed
at young adults. Stephen begins to rely
more and more on Cara for advice, but
it turns out Cara and John are some-
thing of an item. We all know where
this is headed and to be frank, it’s not
something that’s particularly worth
looking forward to.
Most problematic however, is in
the leading man, the other Amell, the
younger cousin of Stephen Amell,
who is certainly generous with the
amount of time he spends showing off
his toned physique (another require-
ment for a show like this), but when it
comes to actually selling the plot, he is
no way near as convincing as he should
be. He is too awkward and somewhat
robotic in his delivery, and as a lead
this is possibly the most disappointing
performance of this television season.
Things take an absolute turn for the
worse when he has to multitask - run-
ning and acting it seems, is too much
of a stretch, and the awful narration
that is a shameless copy of what they
have been using on Arrow doesn’t help
smooth things over either.
The supporting cast is noticeably
better: Mitchell and List do a good
job, Yoo is an adequate comic relief,
and Pellegrino is as devious and evil
as he has been in many other shows
in the past.
Without a doubt the strongest ap-
peal here is the potential in its action
scenes. But there is angst coming. The
show’s still young, and with some mi-
nor tweaks here and there, a lot of fun
could be had in this silly but entertain-
ing concept. Less talking (especially
from Robbie Amell), more action will
be what saves this show, although the
numbers this is posting aren’t looking
too great in its time slot.

