33
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 01 NOV
GAMES
Armor Mayhem is a Halo and Unreal
Tournament inspired game set in the
future when our planet Earth has run
out of energy. Major corporations
send teams to scavenge the universe
in search for more energy. Eventually,
energy is detected on planet 55001
and to their astonishment they ﬁnd
inﬁnite energy crystals. Now you
must ﬁght for the planet’s resources.
Get your weapons and armour on and
ﬁght for your CEO to make billions!
You use the [WASD] keys to direct
your player through various land-
scapes, clicking on your mouse
to ﬁre against competition. The
controls are simple and seamless.
Aside from your standard machine
gun, various other weapons can be
picked up around the landscapes.
Health packets also drop from the
sky too! As you complete missions
and earn money you can unlock
more crazy weapons including the
‘slow gun’ which gives you a shot at
Hitting enemies increases your
adrenaline meter which can be used
[space button] to slow down time
in your perspective enabling better
stamina and agility in real time. In
practise, you tend not to really use it
but it’s a fun plus for the gameplay.
Missions range from single-player,
team Deathmatch, capture the ﬂag,
territory control to ‘steal the orb’. The
missions don’t really adumbrate any
storyline which is a bit of a shame
however the gameplay really makes up
for it. An extra challenge is added for
the most skilled gamers in completing
a level in a time limit to achieve a gold
medal giving you extra purchasing
power for weapons and armour. Un-
fortunately, purchasing more expen-
sive armour does nothing to your stats
- the armour is just for design which
I thought was a bit cheeky consider-
ing some of the price of the armour.
Another thing – the guns were small
and it can be eyestrain sometimes.
They have tried to compensate the
ﬁeld of view of the map with the
size of the characters however I’m
not convinced they’ve captured the
golden balance. Some weapons are
a lot better than others so the weap-
on size can really be frustrating.
Gamers will really love the epic mu-
sic in this game which pumps you
up to achieve crazy killing streaks
against your enemy AIs. One song
to really look out for is Maze – the
Nightkilla and you can change the
music whenever you are playing to
your liking with six songs in total.
Custom battles can be unlocked by
completing levels in the campaign
mode and the diﬃculty of the levels
can be adjusted to the player’s desires.
You also have the ability to give play-
ers in your team AI commands to fol-
low you though this almost always did
not help with the mission or better the
game play. To have the ability to order
your AI team is quite awesome though.
Armor mayhem is a must for all shoot-
er games fans and as much fun it is to
play against other AIs this game will
hugely beneﬁt from an online mul-
tiplayer addition where gamers can
really appreciate the engine’s depth
and appealing platform elements.
creating a time-altering zone to slow
down your enemies and kill’em. And
the Halo inspired dart gun that ﬁres
multiple homing darts that stick
to the target and explode. Com-
pleting missions also unlocks new
maps with the diﬃculty of the mis-
sions’ increasing into the game.
When you, your buddies and your op-
ponents health bar reaches zero they
are automatically transported to a ran-
dom place on the map after 5 seconds.
Pokémon X & Y saw the ﬁrst ever
simultaneous release of a Nintendo
title worldwide. Combined with the
fact that the encryption for the 3DS
has not yet been broken two years
into its release, this has been one of
the most exciting release of a Poké-
mon game in several years, and spell
extremely good news for Nintendo.
In the previous games, the Japanese
games would be released months in
advance of the other localised copies,
and by the time the localised versions
of the games are released, everything
that can be known about the game will
have been discovered, analysed, and
plastered all over the fan-sites on the
internet. In addition, the ability to de-
crypt the games on the previous gen-
eration consoles (like the DS) meant
that hackers could dump the game,
and data-mine the game in its entire-
ty. This is how they can get the exact
numbers and percentages of many of
the mechanics you see on the various
sites. They can even discover hidden,
tendo kept a tight wrap on the things
it revealed about the games. Even re-
viewers were barred from revealing
too much about the games. About a
non-obtainable legendary Pokémons.
This time, howev-
er, things are diﬀerent.
Before the release of the games, Nin-
Yong Wen Chua on the beauties of a world wide release!
week before the games were due to be
released, several retailers in Canada
and Italy broke the street date by sell-
ing copies of the games early. Thus be-
gan a barrage of leaks about the games.
It was an exciting time to wake up
everyday to a barrage of posts on
sites such as reddit about the lat-
est discovery of the games, whether
it be of a new Pokémon, discov-
ery of a new mechanic, or even just
shots of the new graphics. Even two
weeks into the games’ release, there
are still new discoveries being made
about the game, including three
unobtainable legendary Pokémon.
The combined release of the games
before the holiday season could also
spell very good news for Nintendo’s
ﬁnances. The 3DS has been strug-
gling with its sales even two years
into its release. With the games sell-
ing 4 million copies worldwide (not
even including the digital copies,
and pre-orders) during the release
weekend, this might just be the boost
that the 3DS needs. In fact, the 3DS
experienced a 99% increase in sales
week-on-week that very weekend.
Now Nintendo just needs
to do the same for the Wii U.
Amore - not part of Armor Mayham
Imran Rashid
Games Editor
Attention all Halo fans, this is absolutely unreal!
Win something
Felix Games has 1 last copy
of Awesomenauts, so do you
want grab this last copy while
you can? Describe in 300
words your most interesting
game experience of the
summer. Send it in to games.
felix@imperial.ac.uk and get
yourself published as well!
Felix Games Team
The PokéPositives of X & Y

