34 FRIDAY 01 NOV
GAMES
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Calum Skene,
Imran Rashid
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Android Humble Bundle!
Sanchit Sharma
Games Writer
The Humble Bundle with Android
#7 is currently on sale. For those of
you who don’t know what this is, the
Humble Bundle is a sale in which
a set of games are available for
whatever price you choose. It started
off as an indie game only bundle, but
since then it has expanded and even
THQ has gotten in on it (though
they placed more limitations than
other groups have previously done).
Game: Anodyne
A retro-style RPG
In Anodyne, you play as Young. Young’s
quest is to ‘protect the Briar from
the Darkness’ – this wasn’t explained
any further from what I have played.
You are teleported to some strange
place where you ﬁnd your weapon – a
broom. It can pick up dust and put it
down in other places. The art style is
quite cool, the music is very well done,
but overall this game didn’t really grab
me. The premise is not that interesting,
though the puzzles can be. If you enjoy
this sort of game it might keep you
entertained for a few hours, but the
half hour I’ve put into it is enough to
tell me that it’s just not that interesting.
Game:
Greed Corp.
A strange twist on traditional
strategy games
Greed Corp is one of the most
interesting strategy games I’ve come
across. Unlike most strategy games,
where you get stronger as time goes on,
in Greed Corp your position becomes
more precarious as time goes on. The
entire game is based around a unit
called a harvester, which is the main
way to earn money to buy units with.
The other methods are the beginning
of turn and knockout bonuses. The
Game: Incredipede
A combo puzzle-platformer
Game: Ticket to
Ride Online
A popular board game in computer
form
Quozzle is an incredipede – a strange
creature with the ability to change
shapes. Her sisters were kidnapped
and she wants to save them, or some-
thing. The story of Incredipede is
fairly boring and standard. The real
fun in Incredipede comes in building
If you’ve ever played the Ticket
to Ride board game, you already
know whether or not this is worth
it for you. See the end of the review
for details of what this includes.
For those who have not played be-
fore, Ticket to Ride is a very popu-
lar board game which was originally
made in 2004 by Days of Wonder.
Ticket to Ride is a simple game to play
– each turn you can collect cards, take
new tickets, or build train routes. You
need cards to build routes, and tickets
give you points for connecting certain
cities, or take them away if you fail
to connect those cities. It is a game
of ruthless expansion and blocking
others to help you achieve your own
goals. The original USA map awards a
bonus for the longest connected route
and whilst this is the standard, other
maps sometimes change this bonus.
The art is perfect, reﬂecting the board
game very well, though the music takes
a little getting used to. I didn’t enjoy
the music at all to begin with, but hav-
ing played for a week I now adore it.
Onlineplayisveryeasy,whichisimpor-
tant as the AI is not particularly good!
This version of the game comes with
the USA map and the 1910 expan-
sion (which adds a bonus for most
completed tickets, and a new set of
tickets). The other maps available
(Switzerland, Asia, Europe) can be
bought for between £2.50 and £3.10.
Whether you are the head of board
games at Imperial (totally not me), an
aﬁcionado, someone who plays from
time to time, or have never played
board games beyond the dreaded Mo-
nopoly, this is a great game to pick up.
problem is, the harvesters destroy the
land (literally!) in order to earn you
that money, so it doesn’t take too long
before there’s barely any land left on
the map. The rest is just empty space.
Unfortunately, most games end up
with a race to get enough money to
buy a ﬂyer (the only way to cross the
void), with the winner being decided
by the ﬁrst person to ﬂy over to their
opponents territory. So late strategy is
sliminthisgame,buttheearlystrategy,
music and graphics make this a winner.
Even if you’re not a massive fan of turn
based strategy games, this is worth a
few plays – especially with friends.
your own creature and then unleash-
ing her on the platformer-style levels
to try and collect all the fruits (why
she needs fruits, I don't know). In easy
mode, all of the creatures are pre-built
and you only need to use them cor-
rectly. However in hard mode, nearly
all levels require you to build bits of
Quozzle for yourself, which is very
diﬃcult to do correctly! You can add
'legs' and muscles to Quozzle, and
that's about it. It can be incredibly dif-
ﬁcult to predict how the legs will move
due to the way the muscles work – you
really need to see this to understand.
The interesting mechanics combined
with the ﬁtting music and charming
graphics (though the exposed bones
and muscles are rather creepy) make
this a great game for any puzzle lovers.
A Summer at Gunpoint
Lets turn the clock back to the end
of the summer term, 2013. The days
were long and hard, but then the
term ended, and all was well. And
suddenly I found myself with much
more time for gaming. This in turn
allowed me to ﬁnally catch up with
a game I had been anticipating for a
year, Gunpoint. I’d ﬁrst learned about
it from the developer’s blog/website
(www.gunpointgame.com) back in
my ﬁrst year. Here’s the general idea:
You are a freelance spy/private in-
vestigator wearing the classic noir
trenchcoat (with some upgrades) who
has been asked by his clients to steal
could ﬁnally sit down to play my way
through my special extended edi-
tion, with all of its included extras (A
“making of” video by the developer,
along with the bonus soundtracks
of the game, which sound great).
This game combines everything
really well. The music and art bring
the game to life, as you jump across
buildings, up and down lifts and
tinker with the wiring that even
with the short playing time (about 4
hours total) it was worth every mo-
ment, seeing the result of the game
maker’s eﬀorts as well as inspir-
ing me to begin creating my own.
sensitive data and technology from
various people, for various reasons.
Hitting both the platformer and
stealthgenres,Gunpointthrowssome-
thing else into the mix: The ability to
rewire all the electronics in the build-
ing in interesting ways, which brings a
great puzzle element to this adventure.
I’d been anticipating it for so long
because it started as a project by
PC Gamer writer Tom Francis, who
wanted to learn to develop games
with absolutely no prior knowledge
of how. His concept was so inter-
esting that just had to take a look.
Now that the term had ended, I
Aviv Beeri, winner of our contest, describes his game of the summer

