37
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 01 NOV
TRAVEL
Experience: volunteering in scenic Gorna
ICAB brings some much-needed energy to a Bulgarian orphanage
Mandeep Dhingra
Mimi Lee
T
his summer we spent two
weeks volunteering in
Gorna, as part of a trip
with Imperial College Aid
to the Balkans (ICAB).
Gorna is a small, picturesque
town in northern Bulgaria with
just over 30,000 inhabitants.
ICAB is a student-run charity that
typically sends its volunteers to
Bulgarian orphanages and other
centres to work with children. To
discourage abandonment of children,
the government has more recently
begun to set up day centres for
disabled children. Our volunteer
work was at one of such centres.
At Gorna Day Centre, the children are
separated into two groups by age. The
younger children range from age 2 to
10.Theolderchildrenare10andabove.
While working there we found that
“disability” is a ﬂexible term: there was
a wide range, including cerebral palsy,
Down’s syndrome, autism, and ADHD.
Unlike many of the orphanages that
ICAB works with, the Day Centre
was well-equipped with toys, and
even had a functioning playground.
The staﬀ, however, were untrained
and unenthusiastic, so the children
were often left to amuse themselves.
The toys were left to collect dust
on a tidy shelf, out of reach. This is
where we stepped in. Our role was
to organise activities for the children
and provide them with much-needed
care and attention. It was a challenge
to overcome both the language and
disability barriers. It was also diﬃcult
to tailor the activities to the children’s
individual needs and abilities.
We organised a music day with
ukuleles, keyboards and several
percussion instruments. They enjoyed
it more than we thought they would,
and kept asking us for the “guitarra” for
days after. On another day we brought
some clay to the centre: it was great
fun encouraging the children to work
on their manual dexterity through
play and we even managed to learn the
names for some animals in Bulgarian!
When we were not working at the
Day Centre we had time to explore
the local town and nearby areas. It
is a place where lovers of nature,
history and culture can all be satisﬁed.
On one of our days oﬀ, we decided to
climb a nearby hill known as the Rock.
Our hike began on a wide concrete
path with a seemingly gentle incline.
As we got closer to the top, it changed
from a smooth concrete road to a
steep and slippery dirt path. Indeed,
it could barely be called a path. We
only knew we were going the right
way because it was up and because
of the faded arrows spray-painted on
the trees. When we ﬁnally reached the
top we were soaked (Mother Nature
had decided to bless us with rain),
sweaty and muddy, but it was worth
it. The view atop the Rock was breath-
taking. We could see the surrounding
countryside for miles around. It
was a little bit dizzying, actually. No
health and safety precautions here!
We also visited Arbanasi, a pretty
village with many historical buildings,
mainly churches and monasteries.
It’s also where Bulgaria’s rich and
famous live (according to our travel
guide, anyway). We’re not sure if
we saw any Bulgarian celebrities,
but we did see a coach belonging to
FC Ariston, a local football team!
The whole trip was impeccably
organised and better than we could
have imagined. Bulgaria is a place
many people don’t normally consider
and it isn’t somewhere you would
often associate with volunteering.
It is an unspoilt beauty and the
children there are in real need of
love, care and attention, which it
was a privilege to provide. We would
recommend it to anyone. It’s relatively
inexpensive and, more importantly, it
is an incredibly rewarding experience!
Children rocking out on “guitarras” at Gorna Day Centre
Bulgarian bliss: spend your days off unwinding in beautiful countryside
Get involved with ICAB
Visit: facebook.com/ICAidToTheBalkans
Email: ICAB@imperial.ac.uk
…Or attend one of ICABʼs upcoming events:
Monday 11/11 @ 6:30 p.m. in Reynolds R2 (Charing Cross)
Tuesday 12/11 @ 6:00 p.m. in SAF 121 (South Kensington)

