39
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 01 NOV
CGCU
My dear engineering friends,
When they ﬁrst announced the new CGCU President
earlier in March this year, I clearly remembered how
Lotanna Agu single-handedly hoisted me into the air.
Above the crowd cheering for me, I shouted one of my
most memorable campaign slogans out loud “You can
count on me!” Like many of my good friends, Lotanna
was counting on me to usher in an unprecedented
year ahead for the CGCU even as I counted on all of
them for their utmost support and vote to open up a
door for me to do so.
Some say that the ﬁre within the CGCU had died out
over the past decade, but I assure them that there will
always be a few of us whom its members can count on
to keep the ﬂame going. It is with no greater joy that
my 2013/2014 committee and I have been granted
this opportunity to enrich the university experience of
our fellow engineering students this year, to dedicate
ourselves to the revival of the CGCU brand name and
spirit amongst all of you.
Dick Costolo, the CEO of Twitter, said:
“Believe that if you make courageous choices and bet
on yourself and put yourself out there, that you will
have an impact as a result of what you do. And you
don’t need to know now what that would be or how will
it happen because no one ever does.
”
We’ve made bold choices to revise our publicity
themes and methods, overhaul our oﬃce, revamp our
website and restore our highly-coveted events and
traditions, not knowing what the outcome will be. All
these came with tireless hours over the summer holi-
days and sacriﬁces alongside our already hectic aca-
demic schedule (it’s Imperial after all).
What have we achieved so far? For a start, I hope you
ﬁnd that you’re receiving much fewer emails as before
(and certainly of better design and quality) and seeing
more of your student reps publicizing our fantastic
events to you in person. Our CGCU oﬃce is now a
more desirable place for you to come visit us with your
feedback (we are your student voice to the college!).
James and Juliet, our academic aﬀairs and welfare of-
ﬁcers in particular, have so generously set aside their
lunchtimes on Tuesdays and Fridays to receive you on
those matters.
Finally, we saw over-the-top attendance and reception
for our CGCU Welcome Dinner which ended oﬀ with
a roaring Boomalaka cheer.
Yet this is just but the beginning of a new chapter.
Take heart, for the best is yet to come. Bringing you
back to my election results day, the relationship be-
tween Lotanna and me is like the CGCU and its com-
mittee. For as much as the committee can do and
must do, it is ultimately the faith and dedication of all
its members upon which this union relies.
There are many more wonderful events on its way,
including the Dinner with Industry, Alumni Careers
Evening and the Club Night to celebrate the end of a
momentous term! The ball is now in your court to get
involved in all of them and more than that, spread the
C&G identity to your fellow peers. We’re counting on
you to take our union to greater heights!
Sincerely Yours,
Lejon
President’s Open Letter
on behalf of the CGCU
Felix catches up with the City & Guilds
Union. We hear what they’ve been
getting up to over the last few week and
what we can expect for the future.
Integrating Engineers: the way
to reviving the CGCU brand
Geeky punnery aside, the City and
Guilds College Union (better known
as the CGCU) has bounced back this
year - having spent a good while in
relative “CGC-who?” obscurity. With
a fresh-faced committee in place
working towards a uniﬁed theme
- “integrating engineers” - the year
ahead promises to be a good one.
Mascotry, Slave Auctions et al
One of the key priorities for the
Guilds committee was a large-scale
revival of some of the forgotten Guilds
traditions, and an early violation of
our rival’s mascot - RCSU’s Theta
(after 40 years!) - provided us with just
the platform to kick-start that. Whilst
ﬁnal negotiations are still underway,
we’ve used this as an opportunity to
bring back the Slave Auction (and
have the RCSU President participate
in it) in order to raise funds for CGCU
RAG; something which has not been
done since 2009/2010. This’ll take
place in the Spring term during RAG
week - so keep your eyes/ears peeled,
and ideas for embarrassing things for
President Saha to do handy (so long as
you’re willing to pay for charity!)
Having also revived the tradition of
pieing our own committee last year as
a homage to the Hit Squad - which has
its roots and old ownership in CGCU
- we’re keeping up the tradition and
have agreed to have our bearers “take
the cream”; again, for RA. In addition,
the Mech Eng building was renamed
the City and Guilds building this year
- a signiﬁcant moment that harks back
to one of Imperial’s older milestones,
back when the City and Guilds
College came together with the other
constituent colleges to form Imperial
College London.
CGCU Welcome Dinner
Just this Tuesday we hosted the
CGCU’s ﬂagship Welcome Dinner
and Afterparty, held at Cafe de Paris
after having been absent for a year.
Dinner tickets sold out a week in
advance, resulting in a bit of a frenzy
for It was a great chance for newbies
(and not-so-fresh students) to mingle
and have a posh three-course meal
in a swanky setting, and to build a
sense of community amongst the
engineers. With a bevy of freshers
present alongside some distinguished
guests from the City and Guilds
College Association (CGCA) - the
alumni association for engineers - it
was a perfect mix of both old and new,
and certainly ties back to the whole
theme for this year. For want of a
better phrase to describe proceedings:
everyone ate, drank, and was merry.
CGCU/CGCA Alumni Careers
Lecture
Speaking about our alumni (and more
clichés!)...the saying “old is gold”
certainly has some truth in it. The
committee have worked tirelessly
on getting further involvement from
the alumni of said association, The
Imperial College of their days may not
be identical to the Imperial of now,
but that doesn’t stop them from being
a valuable mine of information when
it comes to careers/life advice. As
such, there’ll be an upcoming CGCA
Careers lecture on the 3rd of Dec
which will be a great chance to trade
thoughts and ideas with our alumni -
we’re taking the impersonal feel out of
bog-standard networking events.
CGCU Ofﬁce Hours/Welfare
But of course, Guilds is more than
just funny traditions or social/careers
events for the engineering community
- even though there’s deﬁnitely more
to look forward to on the calendar,
such as bar nights and club nights!
We’re here to look after your welfare,
and there’s our weekly Oﬃce Hours
- a dedicated initiative from our
Academic Aﬀairs Oﬃcer (James
Murphy) and Welfare Oﬃcer (Juliet
Kernohan.) It’s simple: we post times
up on our Facebook page (they tend
to be every Friday), and you just swing
by the City and Guilds Oﬃce in room
340 if you want to get something oﬀ
your chest/wish to ﬁnd out more
about getting involved/managed
to get your hands on the Medics’
Phoenix head (we jest.) The team will
also be hosting our own Welfare Week
for engineers in the Spring (who says
only scientists get to have one?), and
there’s lots lined up including cookery
and self-defense classes. All in all,
plenty to be excited about!
That said, there’s only so much that
the committee can do in terms of
organizing events for you guys and
publicizing. Really, we owe much
of our success to every Guildsman
(and Guildswoman) getting out there
and playing your part. It’s thanks to
you guys spreading the good word,
attending our events and engaging
with us that we’ve gotten oﬀ to a
great start so far - we hope to see
more involvement in the months to
come, whether it’s just participating
as an attendee or even throwing us a
suggestion for improvement. May the
rest of the year be even better for us,
and for you too!
City and Guilds College Union
www.cgcu.net
Keeping up with the Engineers
CGCU
TOP: CGCU at Café de Paris; BOTTOM: CGCU Welcome Dinner time!
“With a
fresh-faced
committee in
place working
towards a
uniﬁed theme
- ʻintegrating
engineersʼ - the
year ahead
promises to be
a good one.”
“But of course,
Guilds is more
than just funny
traditions or
social/careers
events for the
engineering
community”

