4 FRIDAY 01 NOV
FEATURES Editors: VACANT
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Earlier this week Felix caught up
with Professor Debra Humphris,
Vice Provost (Education) and had a
discussion about the new Education
and Student Strategy that was released
on Thursday.
Felix: So, you’re releasing the
Education Student Strategy
tomorrow?
Yes. I started it in December last year,
we started the process of engaging
staﬀ, students and alumni in thinking
about an Education Student Strategy
to give us a framework and a set of
actions to continually enhance and
take forward our education student
experience. So having gone through
a consultation process, having got
people’s great ideas, having honed that
hopefully into a green paper. Having
gone back to the community to say:
“What do you think of this? What are
your comments? Having read all of the
input and having events with students
and with staﬀ town hall meetings,
we then arrived at this Education
Student Strategy, which went to what
was formerly the Management Board
back in June, and has then been to
Provost board again just to double
check. And then over the summer
we’ve been working to set up working
groups around speciﬁc actions, so
we’ve now got a framework for action
for the college and so that all goes live
tomorrow on the website.
So what we’ve tried to do with the
website is have a website where
you can click and you can get to
the information. We’ve put it there.
We’ve put links to other sources
related to particular actions. We won’t
do everything all at once because
there’s too much to do all at once.
So, hopefully it’s both a repository
of information about what’s going
on. It should also be a two-way
format in terms of people who want
to highlight great ideas, because the
world’s moving at such a pace: people
who want to get involved, people
who’ve got views about particular
developments. It’s got to be a two-way
dialogue.
F. So, what was there beforehand,
was there anything at all before you
started this back in December?
The College has always had a strategy.
If you go back to the 2010-14 strategy
there are some higher-level strategic
ambitions in there about education.
There’s really helpfully an issue about
performance: that the College should
be in the top three of all the leading
education indicators, which, if you
take that and apply to say the NSS,
that’s really challenging, and so what
I hope I’ve done with this is get a bit
more focused and set out some really
speciﬁc pieces of work that we need
to do. So back in 2009 there were
no MOOCs [Massive Open Online
Courses], there was no plan on the
horizon about (as we knew it then) for
the rise in undergraduate tuition fees.
So much has happened just in that
period, a strategy has got to be a living
document.
F: So, are you planning on
incorporating changes as more
feedback comes in from people?
So for example, there’s a workgroup
with a commitment to streamline and
rationalise surveys, so that every time
we ask you a question as a student
you should know what we do with
that, what we’ve found, and what
we’re doing as a consequence. I’m
of the view that less is more, fewer
surveys followed up more diligently
and reported back in terms of
actions is probably more worthwhile
than thousands of surveys that you
never hear… that’s not valuing your
feedback. So, that group has started
and undoubtedly there will be changes
that will come along that we’ll need
to adapt to, there’s a national review
of the NSS, so we don’t know what
will come out of that next year. So,
you have to keep these things live
and responsive, but you have to set
a direction and start getting on with
some really speciﬁc actions.
F: So, it is very easy for people to give
feedback, is that via the website?
Yes, so there’s going to be one email.
So for every action there will be a page
that you can click through to ﬁnd out
about.
So if you take this one about “Support
students to return to their schools and
college and employers to share their
experiences of college.” So this came
from Lewis, a student in Earth Science
who said we should do more of this
because it really works for kids and
teachers and schools. And actually,
we like to go and tell our story. So,
Lorraine Craig, who started this oﬀ
in the school of Earth Sciences, has
kindly agreed to lead that group. And
what we’re going to do is gradually
increase this because we must do it
on a quality basis, its no good sending
900 students back to their schools. We
also need to think about the schools
that we focus on because if this about
inspiring the next generation, there
are some schools where we could
probably could do a bit more of that
than in others, so we need to connect
that up with our outreach. … So on
the webpage, we either click on that,
and that will take you to a page which
is just about that action. You’ll be able
to ﬁnd out who’s involved, terms of
reference of the group, what progress
they’re making and any links to other
sources, keeping people looking out
the window. “Actually this is really
good that we do this, but actually
have you seen what the University of
XYZ does? We could be doing that.
So, under each of the four objectives
there will be links to all the actions so
that you can ﬁnd out anything that’s
going on and there will be an email
where anybody who’s got an idea or a
comment, and those comments (as in
the consultation) will range from the
highly supportive and encouraging
to the… more colourful and more
anatomical.
F: Oh dear.
Well, you know all of life is here.
F. So one thing that I’m picking up
is that you’re very keen on making
it transparent and easy. Is this
something that would be possible to
get throughout all college?
Yes, this is a college-wide strategy, this
is the framework we’ve set all College.
The job now is to engage everybody
in the community, staﬀ, students, and
alumni to help put their shoulder to
the wheel and move us forward.
F: Personally I think that with some
of the issues you’ve raised, especially
the NSS, it’s important that we focus
on things and make them better
instead of just complaining which
is what some students currently do
at times. So in terms of boosting
student morale, what are your
thoughts in regards to that?
So, through all of this, what I’ve been
really clear about (and actually there’s
a statement right at the beginning [of
the document]), are the underpinning
assumptions around this. This strategy
is built on three assumptions, one is
our disciplinary strength in science
and engineering and our commitment
to a research-led education that is
practice-based. Another assumption
is a clear commitment to strong
partnership with Imperial College
Union, we do this and we do this
together, and the recognition that
the educational experience of our
students is shaped by all members of
the college community: staﬀ, students
and alumni. How Mrs Patel at the
student hub speaks and deals with
you [and treats you] is as important
as professor “Wonderful Wonderful”
giving her lecture on molecular
something or other. We are all one
community and building that respect
for everybody’s contribution is really
important. Everybody has brilliant
ideas, I don’t know anybody who
comes to work at Imperial College
not wanting to do a great day’s work
and I would be mad to shut oﬀ a route
Interview: Introducing the
Education and Student Strategy
by which people might say “Do you
know what, I had a really great idea,
do you know that we can do X, Y, and
Z”. Genius, you can’t see the wood for
the trees, so engaging people is really
important.
F: Almost wrapping up, looking
forward to the future, both in terms
of this document and future strategy
documents, is there a particular
timeline that we can look at for
changes, and then for the future,
what are you thinking?
So, again, in January the College will
start the process of refreshing it’s
current strategy (it will probably be the
2014 to 2020 strategy), so we’ll start
this process and this will get wound
into it because essentially we’ve done
the education and student piece. We
might refresh it on the way, I wouldn’t
ever rule that out, and then these
actions will take diﬀering amounts
of time. So in terms of the education
foresight process, the challenge I’m
going to put before colleagues is: Let’s
think now about the 2020 graduate
intake, because they are alive. What is
it we’re going to be delivering in 2020,
we’ve got MOOCs, we’ve got ‘digital’,
we’ve got interdisciplinary research
and disciplines merging, challenges
all over the world, increasing
globalisation of higher education,
three-year olds who do this [mimics
a touchscreen gesture] and think that
televisions [are touchscreen]. What
will they be like when they arrive in
2020? How do we prepare for that?
And we need to have a vision about
that because if we’re going to start the
work to get there we have to start now
because we haven’t got many years left
to get to that point.
F. OK. One last question. Is there
any particular part of the strategy
that you’re really keen on, or is it
the whole thing? Is there any one
priority?
No, I think it wouldn’t be in here if
it wasn’t important to the college.
For me, it’s all important, it’s about
students, it’s about there experience,
it’s also about our staﬀ and it’s about
the infrastructure and creating the
environment to which to deliver
world, so you can’t have one bit on it’s
own.
F. OK. Well, thank you very much
for your time.
Felix talks shop with the Vice-Provost Education
Professor Debra Humphris, Vice Provost (Education) FELIX

