5
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 01 NOV
FEATURES
W
ith David
C a m e r o n
recently oﬃcially
backing the
development of a
new nuclear power station in Britain
for the ﬁrst time in our generation, the
UK looks to be more comfortable than
not with accepting the presence of
nuclear energy production operations,
even as the discovery of healthy shale
gas reserves were made known last
year by a British Geological Survey
report. However, not very many
countries around the world are in
a similarly happy dilemma about
choosing which means of energy
production to pursue. Further to
that, which one ought the UK to be
really pursuing as well, when climate
change and environmental eﬀects are
considered?
To know which way to go forward,
we must ﬁrst eliminate which ways
hybrid vehicles (for which the supply
and variety on oﬀer is comparatively
very limited).
It may seem a naïve reason to turn
up one’s nose at a possible future
energy production method, but unless
the public is persuaded to recognise
and care more about the bigger
picture and how it’s not none of their
business, for instance how harvesting
hydroelectric energy could lead to
them enjoying better air quality for
a longer time period in the future
despite having to drive unﬂashy cars,
there is not much that can and will get
done about the energy problem. Solar
energy could end up being our best bet
on paper, with minimal climatological
and environmental side-eﬀects, but if
no one appreciates it, it would not get
developed on at all.
With climate change and the
environment taking centre stage in the
public consciousness more often than
ever before, we also tend to forget
about all the existing infrastructure,
equipment, systems, networks, and
resources related to fossil fuels that we
have which will fall into obsolescence
when a new energy technology takes
over, unless their compatibility issues
lead back. Fossil fuels are commonly
perceived as being one such doomed
path – even though their carbon
footprint is decreasing through means
of technological development and
innovations such as carbon capture &
storage (CCS) techniques, their lack of
accessible deposits and the economic
& environmental setbacks associated
with digging further and deeper mean
that, for any country, sticking purely
to fossil fuels to meet energy demands
is only going to cause bigger problems
after the short-term future comes to
pass.
Another point of consideration is
the ways in which any energy solution
would factor into our lives and the
way we use energy on the personal
level. This is a very motivating factor
which aﬀects public opinion – for
instance, consider the eﬀect on the
private transportation sector. Some
communities in developed countries
are more welcoming of biofuels
replacing petrol because it would
still allow them to use their preferred
vehicle models, whereas they may
not be so keen on wind/hydroelectric
energy being the substitute as it may
mean they have to swap to electric/
can be solved.
Coal mines that would be shut down
could potentially be developed to
harness geothermal energy instead,
whilst petrochemical processing
facilities could be adapted to produce
more eﬃcient biofuels…on the other
hand, nuclear power stations are not
able to adapt much existing energy
infrastructure (including the vast
marine and land transportation
networks that exist primarily to serve
transport of oil & natural gas.)
This is a critical point as existing
resources need to be redeployed as
eﬃciently as possible so suﬃcient
new resources can be directed
towards developing any given energy
technology. Physical space in our
environment is a precious commodity
that is constantly becoming scarcer,
so the extent of utilisation of pre-
existing infrastructure would also
play a signiﬁcant role in determining
which source of energy is deemed
most suitable for development
in a particular country or region.
Minimising the need for new land and
construction generally might mean a
smaller impact upon the environment
and would avoid considerably
increasing the number of sources
of carbon emissions in worldwide
human activity.
Finally, any energy technology that
we choose to progress needs to be
sustainable – a key diﬀerence from
our main energy sources in the past.
This heavily involves the economic
and ﬁnancial aspects of the matter
and also relates to the source of the
energy; whether it is renewable or not.
The energy sector is perhaps the most
important economic sector and its
future form would also need to be able
to sustain jobs and livelihoods, which
means it needs to be invested into.
Furthermore, some possibilities such
as biofuels are in the grey area as to
whether they are renewable, however
other such as solar energy and nuclear
energy are considered virtually
inexhaustible due to their sources’
sheer reserves/energy densities.
Want to hear more conclusive and
insightful discussions about the future
of energy? Come along to the London
Climate Forum at Imperial College
London on 9th November for a panel
discussion on this subject and a host of
other exciting talks and exhibitions.
Shiladitya Ghosh
LCF Organising Committee
The Energy Problem: Which Way Forward?
Part 2 of a 3 part feature brought to you by the London Climate Forum 2013
College has released a new Education
and Student Strategy this week
which “sets out our vision, aims and
priorities for education and the student
experience.” The scope of the document
is a guide for the development of
the education system and student
experience over the next ﬁve years,
providing a strong framework for
improvements that students will
hopefully beneﬁt from over this period
of time.
One of the unfortunate aspects of
trying to make changes in College, as
with any other large organisation, is
that these changes can take time, which
can be frustrating for some students
who might only see the eﬀects of their
feedback after they have graduated.
However, since the beneﬁts of change
tend to fall to the next generation, it
can be easy to forget that any beneﬁts
we have received were also due to those
who studied in these halls before us.
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Great opportunity to work in a
telecoms company as a phone tester.
Toughshield is an established provider of rugged
devices for enterprise customers. Gain experience and
be part of a growing business. If you are interested
please contact Veronica Kudajczyk on 0207 491 6942 or
veronica.kudajczyk@tough-shield.com.
CHECK OUT
OUR WEBSITE
Looking at the Education and Student Strategy
Felix takes a quick look at the newly released strategy document
The Education & Student Strategy
document takes into consideration
several global factors that can aﬀect
the make-up of the incoming student
population, including student social
mobility, student demographics and
the eﬀects the current higher tuition
fees might have on future Imperial
students.
However the document also looks at
the outcomes an Imperial education
can provide for students, such as
competitiveness in an increasingly
global job market. It also shows a
focus on teaching, outreach activities
and ﬁnancial support for both
undergraduate and postgraduate
students.
The strategic aims of College over
the 2013-18 period are “to achieve
internatinal recognition:
-As a global community of the most
talented students
-For our distinctive education
-For our commitment to innovation
in teaching and learning, and the wider
student experience.
-For our outstanding academic
infrastructure.”
InordertoachievetheseaimsCollege
plans to focus on their admissions
process — making an Imperial
education more open to people
form all backgrounds, improving the
experience of new students joining
the College and improving outreach
activities to schools and colleges.
College also plans to focus on the actual
education experience, in terms of
providing improvements to teaching,
pastoral care and the university’s
academic infrastructure.
One strong principle of the strategy
overthenextﬁveyearsistheavailability
and ease of feedback mechanisms
to allow staﬀ, students and alumni a
chance to contribute ideas that can
enhance the student experience. As
part of this the Education department
has created a new website which
allows for easy communication and
access to information. There students
can ﬁnd out more information about
the College’s vision, its objectives and
how they can make a diﬀerence to the
student experience at Imperial.
For more information, visit the new
website at: tinyurl.com/q6zueqc

