6 FRIDAY 01 NOV
POLITICS
Editor: Kartikeya
Rana
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Kartikeya Rana analyses the implications of US foreign policy
Jash Rughani looks into the escalating tensions between India and China
Tensions Escalate Between US and Germany
Kartikeya Rana
Politics Editor
N
SA whistleblower, Edward
Snowden, has recently
leaked documents
stating that the US has
been monitoring phone calls of
Angela Merkel and other European
leaders. According to a German
newspaper, Der Spiegel, the US has
been monitoring Angela Merkel’s
phone since 2002. Such operations
are said to be carried out by the
US in 80 destinations around the
world including Brazil, Mexico and
France. This has resulted in growing
anti American sentiment in these
countries.
Angela Merkel has shown
passionate discontent to the claims
that America wiretaps her phones.
German people have a history of
having mass surveillance been done
on them by dictatorial Communist
and Nazi regimes. This has caused
them to be more sensitive to such
situations. German authorities have
asked Washington to provide an
explanation. The US authorities have
stated that they ‘have not and will not
be monitoring’ her mobile phone.
This does not necessarily mean that
her phone was not monitored in the
past. US and Germany are seen to be
close allies but this beach of trust has
only degraded the ties between the
two nations. Tapping her phone is a
clear infringement on her personal
rights and sovereignty, which makes
her response justiﬁable. “It will take a
lot of time”, Angela said, “to build back
trust.”
These revelations, however, should
not come as a surprise to her as spying
by various intelligence services is very
well known. In fact, Germany has its
own intelligence service directly under
the chancellor, called the Federal
Intelligence Service (BND), which has
a comprehensive scheme of foreign
intelligence gathering. Although some
of the anger shown by the Chancellor
may be genuine, it may have also been
inﬂuenced by the German public
outcry against the actions of the NSA.
American spying operations tend to
be well known for states such as China
and Russia but the desire to wire tap
a close ally such as Germany may
seem strange to many. The decision
may have been inﬂuenced by the
US desire to get the best deal out of
any bilateral trade agreements. By
monitoring Angela Merkel’s mobile
phone, the US can ﬁnd out how to get
the best bargain out of any agreement
with Germany. It could also have been
done to speculate about prospective
German domestic policy and ﬁnd out
whether American companies should
invest in Germany.
The US stature on the world stage
has already been failing. The usage
of drones has caused widespread
discontent as the morality and ethics
of using remote control weapons on
humans is questionable. The relatively
high number of civilian casualties
caused by drones has further added
to the negative public perception
towards their usage. The spying
operations carried out by the NSA
have resulted in a further degradation
of US International relations. German
investments in US markets will now
Talks held between India and China over a border dispute
C
hina’s presence on the
global economic platform
has been colossal since the
turn of the millennium.
It has followed the
tenets of inclusive growth and has
managed to eradicate rural poverty
while the GDP is pegged at about 9
trillion dollars annually. However,
the dragon country’s real problems
and aspirations lie outside of its
boundaries. Or so it appears from its
relations with its neighbors.
Ties between China and Japan
have been repeatedly strained by
a territorial row over a group of
islands,known as the Senkaku islands
in Japan and the Diaoyu islands in
China.The eight uninhabited islands
lie in the East China Sea and they
have a total area of about 7 square
km and lie northeast of Taiwan,
east of the Chinese mainland and
southwest of Japan’s southern-most
region, Okinawa. These islands matter
because they are close to strategically
important shipping lanes, oﬀer rich
ﬁshing grounds and are thought to
contain oil deposits. In December
2012 Japan said a Chinese government
plane had violated its airspace over the
islands and had caused much political
turmoil in both the nations.
In October 2013 Philippines showed
resistance to China’s overwhelming
naval and maritime presence in the
South China Sea and sought clarity
on China’s territorial claims. The
Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia,
Brunei and Taiwan have partial or
total claims to the resource-rich and
highly traversed sea while China
maintained that it has indisputable
sovereignty over nearly the entire sea.
Yet a long stand-oﬀ between
Chinese and Indian soldiers in a
disputed part of Ladakh in September,
2013 reﬂects another profound
problem: already it ranks as the most
serious confrontation between the
Asian giants since the late 1980s. India
accused its neighbour to the north-
east of sending troops some 19km
past a line of actual control (LAC),
in the Despang area of Ladakh, a part
of Jammu & Kashmir state that is
wedged between Tibet proper and the
vale of Kashmir. They had reportedly
been there for more than two weeks
and soon a small number of Indian
soldiers set up camp within a stone’s
throw of their Chinese counterparts.
The incursion was seen simply as
China putting pressure on militarily
weaker India, presumably to extract
concessions such as a freeze on the
number of troops it deploys along
the border, or some block on India’s
development of bunkers, roads or
Jash Rughani
Politics Editor
suﬀer, as any German-US deal will
be put under scrutiny. Furthermore,
it will be harder for the US to put
forward reforms through the UN
Security Council. Nations such as
Germany and France are members of
the Security Council and any reform
put forward by the US, regardless of
its aim, would be seen with suspicion.
It will also cause the US to ﬁnd it
harder to convince European nations
to partake as allies in conﬂicts around
the world.
Strangely enough, the UK has
not provided noticeable reactions
to the whole situation. There is a
deal between the UK and US, which
prevents such spying operations
between the two states. The UK may
also be holding back from reacting as
it may have similar spying operations
of its own. Recent reports suggest that
the UK Government Communication
Headquarters (GCHQ) have been
spying on a German data cable.
The validity of the information
provided is also something that must
be questioned. Edward Snowden
has provided information whilst
living under asylum in Moscow. As
a former member of the NSA, he
has information about the workings
of other security agencies as well.
The fact that he is only providing
information about the American
intelligence services may be because
he wishes to further his personal
gains. Furthermore, the fact that he
has chosen to seek asylum in Moscow
is rather suspicious. There is growing
tension between Russia and the US
regarding the situation in Syria.
Russian authorities wish to give Assad
more time to dispossess hiws chemical
weapons than the US is willing to oﬀer.
The damage caused to US-German
relationships is one, which will take
a long time to heal. The US now has
to conduct a complete review of its
international policy and change the
way it takes part in international aﬀairs
to improve its stand in the world.
other structures on its own side of
the frontier. Any such freeze would
leave Chinese forces, which are
established on a plateau, in a much
stronger position. They already enjoy
the beneﬁt of all-weather roads,
railway lines and other structures that
connect them to the rest of China.
Lastly, worsening bilateral relations
would be at odds with broader gains
between the countries in other ﬁelds.
The value of bilateral trade, skewed
heavily in China’s favour, has grown
from just $2.9 billion a year at the start
of the millennium to some $66 billion
annually.China and India appear to
co-operate as members of the BRICS
group of countries, for example
sharing a proposal to establish a new
global development bank. And even
along the disputed border, the two
countries have established limited
mechanisms for managing their
disagreements peacefully. India’s
prime minister, Manmohan Singh,
went to Beijing to discuss matters of
trade and border defense last week in
the wake of hope for peaceful ties and
improved relations.
Political actions are much
deliberated over to create desired
impacts and outcomes. It is not
surprising to see the premier of a
nation expecting general elections
making overseas trips to strategically
valid nations or delivering powerful
speeches at international summits to
woo thevote banks. Similarly, It is not
diﬃcult to understand the underlying
motives of an imperialistic state trying
to wield its inﬂuence on neighboring
countries. In my opinion, today’s
day and age where technological
advancements have transformed
the world into a single global village,
it is in the interest of each nation to
work cordially alongside the others.
The inﬂux of ideas across varied
socio-economic backgrounds can
be properly channeled with theever-
growing infrastructure to facilitate
better lifestyles. More than expanding
on the arsenal, nations need to
bolster their intellectual capacity to
survive global competition. Macabre
warfare needs to be renounced and
development of soft skills deserves
investments.
CREDIT:WWW.NATIONALTURK.COM
THEHINDU.COM

