8 FRIDAY 01 NOV
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
PHILIPPE KOK
J
ust how many species
actually are there in the
world? This mystery is up
there with the other big
questions that dominate
science, and has been pursued by
all manner of scientists over the
years. The ﬂummoxing phylogeny
of organisms throughout history is
one of the many factors as to why we
just can’t seem to pinpoint a magic
number, alongside the natural ebbing
and ﬂowing of numbers of species all
the time; after all, it is the ultimate goal
of genes to propagate their organismal
stronghold into something bigger,
better, faster or stronger, so species
come and go as fast as evolution
allows.
Throw in the issues caused by
How many species are there in the world?
Philippa Skett discusses the difficulties associated with determining biodiversity
deforestation, global warming and
other human activity, alongside the
ecosystems we are yet to explore,
and it is easy to understand just how
diﬃcult it is to track species exiting
and entering the biodiversity stage.
That’s not to say science isn’t
attempting to get up to speed with
the number of species out there. This
week saw the WWF announce that
they have discovered at least 441 new
species of plants and animals in a
remote part of the Amazon rainforest
newly explored between 2010 and
2013. These included 258 species
of plants, 84 ﬁsh, 22 reptiles and a
monkey that purrs like a cat.
It’s not just the ecology adventurers
that are having all the fun in the
species scavenger hunt either - after
studying the genetics of the humpback
dolphins earlier this week, it appeared
that a family that was previously
thought to only consist of three species
is actually comprised of four. Based
on both genetically analysing and
morphologically studying the Sousa
genus of dolphins, it was found that
another genetically distinct species
was hidden away among the three
already recognised based on previous
taxonomic classiﬁcations.
Estimating total species numbers
is an endeavour that has stretched
through the history of the life
sciences, which has seen various
successes and much more humorous
failures. One of the most noted
examples is that of Terry Erwin, an
excitable entomologist who in 1982
based his estimation on the tiniest
dataset imaginable. After sampling 19
individuals of arthropods from one
species of rainforest tree, he went on
to make wild assumptions concerning
how many species are speciﬁc to tree
species, how many trees there are, and
then adding some more in for good
measure. He ﬁnally came to the hugely
over-exaggerated ﬁgure of there being
possibly 30 million arthropod species,
much to the exasperation of the rest of
the scientiﬁc community at the time.
Although it has been more recently
estimated that 86 percent of species
probably haven’t been discovered yet,
it has also been deduced that there
is a less than 0.00001 percent chance
that Erwin was right in his arthropod
estimation.
People are not put oﬀ by his eﬀorts
D
iscovering exoplanets
nearly 20 years ago
allowed physicists to
change their view of
the universe. We had
always known that our Sun was not
the only star in the wide universe,
but then came conﬁrmation that
there are star systems like ours too,
with planets of all sizes orbiting one,
two or three stars at a time. Now one
dwarf star in particular, KIC 11442793
(catchy name!), may hold a record for
the most number of exoplanets, with
two separate research groups ﬁnding
a seventh orbiting the star.
Chris Lintott from the University
of Oxford led one research group,
who used data gathered from NASA’s
space telescope, Kepler, to discover
this latest exoplanet. The team have
submitted their research paper to be
peer reviewed in the Astronomical
Journal. Lintott has high hopes,
saying, “With a transiting system,
once you get multiple planets, the
odds of them being false positives are
very small.”
The star itself is just a stone’s throw
away from Earth at 2500 light years,
and has been noted to bear similarities
to our own. One diﬀerence though is
the fact that all of the planets orbit
much closer to their star - this new
planet has an orbit of only 125 days,
but is almost 3 times as large as the
Earth, by diameter. “It actually looks
like our Solar System in one sense,
with small planets on the inside and
big planets on the outside … That’s
not necessarily what we always see,”
7th rock from another sun
said co-author Robert Simpson, also
from Oxford University.
An interesting point to note is
that because all of the planets orbit
relatively closely to the star, previous
detection methods should have been
able to predict the seventh exoplanet.
As Dr Lintott put it, “Everything we
know about this system tells us it
should have been found using the
automatic detection routines. But it
wasn’t.”
Seven star systems can be quite
complicated to deal with and the
calculations that need to be performed
can become lengthy. Looking for the
right transit of the planets “seems
like a task that’s perfectly designed
for computers. But we keep ﬁnding,
in these niche cases, in these odd
cases, in these complicated cases that
humans can beat the computers.”
ArXiv: 1310.5912
Pavitar Singh Devgon
Science Writer
NASA /JACK PFALLER
A new species of snake, Chironius challenger
however - a researcher in the number
of ﬁelds relating to species discovery
is thought to discover and describe
around 24.8 species on average in
their career. We must eventually
cover all the species at some point,
right? Unfortunately, with an average
expenditure per year of US$97, 000
per researcher, answering the big
question through leg work alone
could potentially cost around US$ 263
billion.
Currently catalogued, there are
around 300,000 plant species,
1,233,500 terrestrial animal species,
and a somewhat lacklustre ﬁgure
of 98,000 fungal species. However,
estimated ﬁgures for the total that are
expected to exist globally, based on
current phylogenetic understanding
and extrapolation, suggest there may
be in reality up to 1.5 million fungal
species and potentially 11.4 million
arthropod species. It’s still not quite
the same ﬁgure as Erwin suggested
but does show just how little we still
know about the true biodiversity out
there.
So what is the plan? Scouring the
Amazon rainforest is fun, but if we
still have a staggering four ﬁfths of
species yet to ﬁnd, amassing only
around 400 of these over the space of 3
years is hardly time eﬃcient. Not only
that, but the neglected players in this
worldwide game of biodiversity hide
and seek are those that really never
attracted attention in the ﬁrst place,
like the miniscule mushrooms or the
placid platyhelminthes. People prefer
to chase large cats over savannahs
or catch beautiful butterﬂies in
forests than pick through mud for an
unassuming hidden fern or fungus.
But taxonomic eﬀort and eﬃciency
is increasing, and with DNA
technology allowing us to unravel the
secrets behind cryptic species - those
that appear or behave as one species
but may actually be several - we might
be able to pick up the undiscovered
biodiversity backlog quicker than ever.
We also need to simply cover
more ground - with some species
potentially only inhabiting tiny areas
due to geological or geographical
constraints, simply locating these
out-of-reach areas is the ﬁrst step to
tracking down more elusive animals.
The aim now is to get the poster
animals of biodiversity out of the
spotlight and start getting excited
over the more secretive species; we
need more mycologists to track down
the mushrooms missing in our lives.
We can’t just leave it to the ecologists
either; it has to be a team eﬀort too.
We need the geographers to pinpoint
areas of interest, the geologists to
predict just what might be there and
why, and even the mathematicians to
model species and scenarios which
we can’t study ﬁrst hand, such as
the progression of species numbers
throughout immensely long periods
of time. Throw in geneticists, marine
biologists and the taxonomists too to
point us in the right direction, and
suddenly it becomes so much more of
a team eﬀort. Biologists need all the
help they can get in the quest to catch
‘em all.
The Kepler Space Telescope before launch in 2009

