FEATURES
Amnesty International investigates different countries' attitudes towards drug offences.
Addicted to Killing
'I'm ready for execution. I already saw
the gallows being tested,' said the sailor.
His wrists were handcuffed as he spoke.
Outside the jail a group of journalists kept
vigil.
Next morning at 6.02am he was dead,
one hour later than the usual schedule for
the execution of a condemned man in
Malaysia. His hanging had been held up
as a special concession so that he could
perform his last prayers at dawn—the first
of five a Muslim is obliged to perform
daily.
The 37 year-old seafarer, a native of
Indonesia, died protesting his innocence.
Convicted of possessing 937 grams of
marijuana and being a member of a drug
syndicate, he became the first prisoner in
1990 to join Malaysia's ever-rising toll of
those executed in what officials now
admit is a lethal failure to stem the
country's drug trade.
Malaysia's anti-drug drive made
international headlines in the early 1980s
when the country's leaders made the
death penalty mandatory i n drug
offences. Huge billboards warned local
citizens and foreign travellers: 'Be
forewarned: Death for drug traffickers
under Malaysian law.' B y June of this
year the national press reported that 104
convicts had been hanged o n drug
charges since 1983 and a further 200
were waiting o n death row.
One of over 20 countries have now
tried using the death penalty for drug
offences, Malaysia has become a crucible
for testing the effectiveness of the
punishment as the ultimate antidote to
narcotics.
The statistics for addiction paint a grim
picture. In 1970 only 711 addicts were
identified in the country. T w o decades
later, in December 1989, the Home
Ministry's Dadah (drugs) Treatment and
Rehabilitation Division had identified
145,685 addicts throughout the country.
Not only has the increase been
staggering, but it has continued regardless
of the hangman. T w o years after the
1983 decision to make the death penalty
mandatory for drug offences, the
government's figure for registered addicts
stood at 102,807. Forteen months later it
had risen to 111,688. T w o years later—
and with executions being enacted in a
blaze of publicity against foreigners as
well as local citizens—the addiction
register had gone up to 128,741, a steep
rise of nearly 30 per cent over three
years.
The experiment had failed. But
executions continue.
A 1989 report by the International
Narcotics Control Board said that
Malaysia was continuing to be affected by
growing 'transit traffic' involving
primarily opium and heroin. Both were
being smuggled across the country's
northern border or through its western
coastline. The report noted, however, that
'in trying to come to grips with the drug
abuse and trafficking situation, the
government has made it clear that it will
not compromise in dealing with drug
offenders, including foreigners.'
Of the 104 reported executions, 25
were said to have been foreigners. These
now include H a n Tsui Lin, one of eight
Hong Kong citizens executed o n 30 May
1990 in the country's biggest mass
execution. She became the first foreign
woman to hang in Malaysia.
Virtually every time a foreigner has
come up for execution, press interest has
been intense and heads of government
have publicly and privately appealed to
the Malaysian authorities to show
clemency. To date, the pleas have fallen
on deaf ears, and nationals of Australia,
Britain, Indonesia, the Philippines,
Singapore and Thailand have also been
put to death.
Amnesty International, the worldwide
human rights organisation, has repeatedly
urged the Malaysian authorities to stop
the killing. It has taken the same stand
against the death penalty in all countries.
In a major report o n the death penalty
released a year ago, the organisation
states: 'The rationale for using the death
penalty is that it will deter drug
traffickers more effectively than other
punishments. But despite hundreds of
executions there is no clear evidence of a
decline in drug-trafficking w h i c h could be
clearly attributed to the threat or use of
that penalty.'
International experts agree. The lack of
deterrent effect was cited at the
December 1985 meeting of the United
Nations Expert Group o n
Countermeasures to Drug Smuggling b y
Air and Sea. The'group's report stated:
The Electric Chair—waiting for a victim.
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS
Reports o n A m n e s t y ' s c o n c e r n s i n the f o l l o w i n g countries a r e
n o w available. Please contact the Imperial College G r o u p .
Afghanistan Hong Kong Romania
Austria Indonesia Saudi Arabia
Argentina Iran Somalia
Bangladesh Jamaica S Africa
Brazil Jordan Spain
Burma (Myanmar) Kampuchea Sri Lanka
Chile Kenya Surriame
China Mexico Syria
Columbia Morocco Turkey
East Timor Nepal Uganda
Egypt Nicaragua UK
El Salvador Panama
Guatemala Peru
Haiti Philippines
FEATURES
'...in the experience of several experts,
the fact that capital punishment appeared
on the statute books as the m a x i m u m
penalty did not necessarily deter
trafficking; indeed, in some cases it might
make prosecution more difficult because
courts of law were naturally inclined to
require a m u c h higher standard of proof
when capital punishment was possible or
even mandatory...The most effective
deterrent was assuredly the certainty of
detection and arrest.'
In the desperate battle against drugs,
such evidence is often overlooked. In
November 1988, the United States joined
the league of nations opting for
executions as a weapon against the drug
trade. Federal Law now allows the
imposition of the death penalty as an
optional punishment for persons w h o
intentionally kill or order killings while
committing drug-related offences.
Back in Malaysia, with its soaring
addiction rate, officials are beginning to
express doubts about the effectiveness of
the death penalty as a deterrent. In June
this year the Deputy Minister of Home
Affairs said that the country's mandatory
death penalty for drug trafficking had
failed to curb either the trade or drug
abuse and that a new approach to the
problem was needed.
In a a paper presented at the national
Seminar on Drugs Treatment and
Rehabilitation in Kuala Lumpur in July
1990, the deputy director of the Criminal
Investigation Department's anti-narcotics
force said the mandatory death sentence
had not shown signs of achieving its role
as a deterrent in the six years since its
enforcement. Instead, the number of
people detained for trafficking and
increased those detained were usually
replaced by other traffickers within a
short time.
He said: 'Our intelligence shows that
people were found to be trafficking dadah
(drugs) even when a member of their
family had been detained and awaiting
trial.'
INTERESTED?
The Imperial College Amnesty
International group is
participating in a worldwide
campaign against the use of the
death penalty for drug related
crimes. To take part, turn up to
one of our weekly meetings or
sign a letter on Thursday
lunchtime in the JCR.
12 13

