Tanita Tikaram
The Apples
—Eye Wonder 12"
There's a really sexy sample buried in
this record I could almost kill for. It
sounds like Prince on acid and it goes
'Heyyyeyyeah' and the rest of the song
rotates around it. (I'll insert it several
times just to give you the feel for it.)
Prince's influence appears more than
once, this time in the guitar department -
you know the one - 7 Just want your
extra time and your (nicked guitar line) ...
kiss!'
All this occurs in the first five seconds
of every mix o n this 12", but how does
the rest of the song go? Well, to be fair,
it heads in a different direction to the
Purple One's funk workouts and it has a
few other blips, bleeps, scratches and
samples to bounce it on its way. There is
an original song here, but it sounds like
it's obeying the given formula somewhat,
(hey yey yeah etc.)
The vocalist sounds familiar but I can't
quite place him although he sounds a bit
like Barney from New order. The chorus
consists of more Heyyyeyyeah's and the
singer wondering if we love him several
hundred times - and do we readers? Well,
I think we do.
Harry Cross
Poppy Fields
—Drug House 12"
If you're gonna write a song about drugs,
not only do y o u have to take them
beforehand, but you have to put a
believable edge to the song. The Jesus
and Mary Chain produced probably the
best druggy song ever in 'Some Candy
Talking' - they certainly were talking
from experience and they also did it in a
haze of feedback. Remember the incident
when Mike Reid suddenly realised it was
about the 'D-word' and went round the
B B C like a headless chicken getting it
banned?
That's the sort of reaction the Poppy
Fields should be trying to achieve. They
employ an electro-beat and a niggly
guitar line that's hard to get out of your
head once you've heard it a couple of
times but the indefinable magic isn't
there. Maybe the song's too blatantly
druggy, maybe it's that druggy songs are
to commonplace after the house
revolution (yeah!), maybe it's just to
average. Whatever the reason, Drug
House doesn't make the grade.
Harry Cross
—Everybody's Angel LP
Y o u don't like Tanita Tikaram? Y o u think
she's boring? Fine. If that is the case then
you probably won't much like this album
either. If you're a real Tanita T i k a r a m
freak then you're going to buy the album
whatever I say. So, who a m I talking to?
This is aimed at those of you who
bought one, or both, of her previous
albums, and figure that y o u have enough
of her work, or haven't bought any, and
are slightly interested in her music.
So, what's the album like? Tanita's
songwriting ability has improved; she
manages to produce a greater variety of
songs than on either of her two previous
albums (Ancient Heart, The Sweet
Keeper). Tanita now also has a better
control over her voice, giving her a wider
range of tones to cope w i t h her now
wider range of styles.
Basically, she's improving, in writing
and performance, and if she were to quit
the music business right now, this is the
album she should be remembered for; it's
the best so far. Want to k n o w any more?
Buy the album.
Stef
Spacemen 3 -Big City 12"
All sounds on this tape are produced on
an unmodified guitar with an E bow,
except of course the percussion. O h w o w
man, let's get stoned.
Spacemen 3...from their drunken haze
to discover a tune before dragging it
down with them again.
The official effects are well...trippy. This
time the vinyl is one up on the CD.
Just when you think you have floated
away there is another chord to remind
you you're still at home on the planet
moron. Y o u need something to keep your
mind unoccupied when listening to this
long track.
We didn't listen to the B side as we had
floated away on purple clouds in a-trance
at Drive.
The O h Wow Man.
Revolting Cocks
Thursday night and the Robey moved to
central London. Every traveller, drop-out,
hardcore freak and a few more besides
were there to see The Revolting Cocks
and they were in for a treat.
Godflesh opened, their merciless grind
beating an already packed Astoria into
submission. Despite some technical
hitches the duo, sometimes augmented by
an extra guitarist, still managed to sound
like mountains moving.
Next up were Bomb Everything, who
seemed to be moving towards a more
commercial sound. Still crap though!
Tame expectation awaited the Cocks,
who all of a sudden leapt onto the stage
with no ceremony, and after a brief
—Astoria 24.1.91
comment about the you k n o w what
launched straight into Beers, Steers and
Queers. Tonight they were awesome, a
total wipeout of sound that got the shole
dancefloor, and some of the balcony,
dancing like those possessed.
The beats were merciless, but the dark
edge to the music and its subject matter
was totally overshadowed by the
outrageous Go-Go dancers who enterd
after a few songs and pretty soon the
whole stage degenerated into a sort of
s t i m u l a t e d orgy. God only knows how
the guitarist managed to keep playing.
!f they're ever allowed to leave the
asylum again everybody should be made
to see The Revolting Cocks. A revelation.
14

