Skinny
Too Dark Park brings Skinny Puppys'
dark vision of the world to its logical
conclusion. Their world seems to be
inhabited only by pain and confusion—the
song titles: Convulsion, Spasmolytic,
Shore Lined Poison point the way and the
agony follows.
Take Tormentor a sick song for a sick
world, it grinds down mercilessly,
everything in a beat that reminds one of
the crash of jackboots. This is monotony
elevated to an art form.
Spasmolytic improves, complex rhythms
and upfront bass providing an effective
background for yet more tortured vocals.
This track is again improved by variation,
with the essential beat of the song never
being lost.
Puppy
Shore Lined Poison has an almost new
age intro w h i c h is suddenly and horribly
ruptured by a rhythm that appears to be
composed of the sounds of a broken
radio. This is perhaps the best track on
the album, and excellent contrast being
drawn between industrial beat and almost
peaceful keyboards. Intelligent samples
further improve this music to play at a
ridiculous volume and get lost in.
Whilst Too Dark Park won't win them
many new fans, Skinny Puppy are shown
to be at the forefront of a genre that
surely must replace the awfulness of
Manchester. A n d they'd be brilliant on
Top of the Popsl
The Paleoethnobotanist.
Front 242 —Tyranny For You LP
Front 242 approach the same ideas as
Skinny Puppy from a different angle
altogether. Significantly lighter-edged,
Tyranny for You is softly subversive,
lulling you into a false sense of security
with tracks such as Sacrifice and Rhythm
of Time the openers which show a heavy
reliance on keyboard motifs and working
extremely well.
Front 242's vision comes through on
Trigger 2, ominous keyboards
underpinning the rhythm in an interesting
role reversal.
For a long time, F 242's entry into the
mainstream' has been anticipated, and
this, if any, is surely the album to do it.
Far too scarey still for Sharon and Kevin
though it is, this should find a ready
home next to, and far outshining in the
meantime bands such as The Shamen and
even Depeche Mode, who now must be
seen as trailblazers for this and its like.
'Recession, Repression, Regression' is
the chant of the title track, and for once
you can be sure that its a band
commenting on their society and not on
their own music. This album shows a new
side to electro that F242 have been
anticipating for some time. A n d I think its
bloody good.
The Paleoethnobotanist.
Jan Johnson's vocals remind one instantly
of those sharp melodic tones belonging to
Michelle Shocked. The instrumental
comprises a sound, but light, jangle pop
configuration. The rhythm going from an
easy to follow beat to one of those
annoying half times which tends to put
dancers into slow motion for a second or
two. That little re-adjustment to step time
looking so uncool. But w h o cares, 1 hate
the Empire in Leicester Square and I'm
sure they wouldn't play it there anyway.
A gaelic burr at times breaks to the
crest of a wave, just making itself
apparent like a small rush of foam on an
expectant wave. Uncontrolled but in-line
and in harmony with the strength of Jan's
voice. Funnily enough she hails from no
-If This Is Love 12"
nearer the gaelic lands than Manchester.
Don't worry though this is no fat, furry,
baggy Mancunian line up - the press
release says so! It also says that J.J. are
here to 'create memorable hummable
songs'. This they do with no problem at
all though some of those intro's are a
little dodgy. I mean there along the lines
of so many 'here we go lets make a
classic they'll remember forever' songs
and the backing surely hails from
Beautiful South, House Martins...a touch
of over production perhaps.
Still, it's a slick little number that's
bound to get far too many people
hooked. Be careful, you might end up
buying all there records!
Christ.
15

