Clubs and
Film Cross Country
Monty Python's The Meaning of Life is
the last and greatest cinematic attempt by
the crazy team. Life is explored in its
least subtle aspects with live organ
donors, the G r i m m Reaper, songs,
dancing girls, and of course Mr Creosote.
This film can never be seen often
enough.
7.30pm, M e c h Eng 220 on Thursday 7th
February.
Yoga
Yoga lessons will commence from next
week on Tuesday at 8pm and Friday at
5.30pm in Southside G y m .
The exercises, which are taken from
various styles and martial arts flexibility
training, concentrate on stretching,
although there are also some medatitive
aspects. They improve physical
suppleness, breathing and mental
concentration, and are a good
complement to other physical activities.
A sizable contingent of our lovable insane
athletes trooped off en masse to
Horsenden Hill for part 4 of the colleges'
league saga, delivering another
phenomenous display of mud-wallowing
sufficient to extend our overall lead to
unassailable proportions. O n a fairly tame
course of 5.3 miles, the unbeaten Paul
Northrop achieved a surprisingly easy
victory despite his dodgy knee, drifting in
front after two miles and cruising away
unchallenged. Storming home in fourth
was Frank Dudbridge, still improving
after all these years, having worked his
way up from 15th after the opening
charge. His erstwhile companion, A l e x
Gaskell, suffered towards the end; six
weeks missed through injury taking its
toll. In a photo-finish with the enigmatic
Bill Skailes, once more producing a
despearte final sprint, A l e x was awarded
16th with Bill only able to equal his best
placing of 17th. But both were upstaged
by Laurence Fowkes, the sturdy squaddie,
who, after m i x i n g it with the leaders
early on, settled into the chasing group
and improved massively to finish 12th.
Again our opponents could not match this
packing and IC took the team honours by
41 points. Meanwhile the 'B' runners
enjoyed an average day, Duncan O'Dell's
radical attitude winning the day in 53rd
to Dan McQueen's 59th. Dave Budgett
had one of his less successful ventures in
69th.
Our two lady representatives acquitted
themselves well, with Edwige Pitel
managing 3rd after a tight finish with a
group chasing the runaway winner. Helen
Macintosh also needed to produce
terminal strength to break into the top 10
for the first time this year. The results
pushed Edwige into second place in the
overall women's rank, and with two races
remaining, our team looks like reaping a
record glut of medals at the end of the
season.
Diving Rugby
At the swimming pool, some time has
been set aside (Wed 6.30pm) for those
who enjoy, or would like to learn, board
diving. We hope to start a diving club
which will be open to all levels of ability.
Women's
Waterpolo
W e are looking for more w o m e n to make
up a women's waterpolo team. There are
currently three of us, all newcomers to
this brilliant game.
At the moment we practice with the
men on Monday and Friday evenings
between 7.30 and 9.00pm. Although once
we have enough people we can arrange
our own pool session and coaching.
Waterpolo is an excellent team sport,
improving fitness, stamina and
coordination. It is also an ideal way to
improve your swimming as we have a
swimming practice on the same evening.
Don't worry if you can't make all of the
sessions any regular participation would
be welcome.
If interested just turn up or call Bron on
ext 6851 or Caroline on 4772.
IC 1st XV - 7 Cardiff 1st XV - 10
After qualifying from the South East
group IC Rugby faced Cardiff in the last
sixteen of the U A U . The Welshies getting
to this stage by defeating Birmingham
60-3 in a play-off round.
Last year IC went out of the
competition defeated 31-12 by Swansea,
who went on and narrowly lost to
Loughborough in the final at •
Twickenham. It was a brave display from
the much younger and inexperienced IC
side. With virtually the same team,
confidence was running at a much higher
level this year. The IC outfit was better
prepared and keener than ever before.
With a hardy band of supporters
cheering on the lads, IC kicked off on a
cold Wednesday afternoon. The opening
minutes were quite frantic, both packs
hunting ferociously for the ball and when
it was spun to the backs each side tackled
clinically. The game was cut and thrust,
nothing given either way. Eventually
after an IC infringement, the Cardiff
standoff landed a penalty, breaking the
deadlock and putting Cardiff three points
up. IC got right back into the game and
soon scores were tied, thanks to a Mike
Anderson penalty 'success'. Just before
half-time Cardiff flyhacked the ball
downfield, after some sloppy clearance
efforts, the ball bobbled into the flanker's
hands who duely popped over to score a
pretty dire try. (Half-time: IC 3, Cardiff 7).
The second continued m u c h in the way
of the first. IC trying to pick the pace up
a gear and Cardiff keeping the play tight,
using their heavier forwards to grind IC
down, moving downfield one scrum or
lineout to the next. The Cardiff pressure
never seemed to be converted into
points. Thanks to stout IC defence and a
miserable day from the Cardiff kicker (he
did manage one in the second half) the
scores were kept to a m i n i m u m . Then, as
if releasing a pressure cap, IC broke out,
with blinding brilliance, all out defence
was turned into all out attack, forwards
swarming up field like ravishing herds,
backs striding upfield as if steroid
implanted. Cardiff were on the rack, after
a darting run, Mike Anderson went over
for a try. Horrah!
The conversion went wide and this was
to be the last significant event of the
game. After efforts in the dying moments
IC went down by only 3 points. IC 7,
Cardiff 10.
16

