Societies
Badmington
The U A U Badminton challenge round
brought m i x e d results for the IC team.
The ladies playing away to Leeds were
up against a side consisting of U A U
individuals, singles and doubles titles
holders. The 9-0 beating was
disappointing and 1 felt we could have
gained a few points to make the score
more respectable.
The men's 1st team had their problems
facing Southampton. With our best player
injured (Simon) the task became more
difficult. The match was evens right until
the last game at 4-4. W e were not let
down by the U A U finalists last year
Simon Hughes and Trevor Kernick who
won their game to give the 1st team a
place in the quarter finals.
The 2nd team also needed this win
against Nottingham for a quarter final
place. W e came out victors in the same
stage last year and this year the task
seemed easier. IC beat Nottingham in the
m i n i m u m number of games possible 5-0.
17
Fencing
Congratulations to Dave Hatton and Mark
Francis who have maintained their
unbeaten run. Keep it up. The final score
7-2 was a good performane and will have
to be maintained when both the 1st and
2nd team play Loughborough next week.
Having come second in their round-
robin group, IC ladies team did not
automatically qualify into the next round.
IC ladies needed to beat U C L in the play-
offs to advance into the next round. The
atmosphere was tense with both teams
wanting this w i n desperately to prevent
an early end to the U A U season.
IC started well with the three pairs
outplaying their counterparts with relative
ease. The match was over in the next
two games w h e n the IC ladies moved to
an unbeatable 5-0 lead. U C L managed to
clinch one back making the final score
8- 1 to IC.
The match was won convincingly but it
certainly won't be easy next time being
drawn away to Leeds.
Football
IC 4ths - 6 King's 5ths - 1
In their biggest win of the season, the
4ths crushed an average opposition until
their buttons popped. IC surged forward
as one, apart from Si Turner that is, who
was obviously a little confused after
scoring a 30 yard rocket. Eyes glazed and
adrenalin flowing, he was solely intent on
repeating his earlier performances, but
perhaps should have aimed at the other
goal, as his overhit backpass
unexpectedly left the half-time score at
1-1.
After the introducion of their sub John
Dunstan, IC began to assert their
superiority. J o n Mottashed scored with an
excellent near-post header and then Gary
Mahoney displayed good finishing with
two quick breakaway goals. Not deterred
by certain midfielders suddenly
breakdancing in the mud due to cramp,
the 4ths finished off the game with
another header from Jon and the final
goal from Gary to complete an easy hat-
trick. A final w o r d form the 4ths team
players to their captain (who was out
through injury)—break a leg!!

