F I N A N C I A L A N D B U S I N E S S C O N S U L T A N C Y
Financial Consulting Services (FCS) is one of the fastest growing areas of Arthur Andersen. It provides
advice on a range of strategic and operational issues that adds value to clients' businesses and facilitates
their growth.
Trainee Consultants joining the group perform data research and analysis within multidisciplinary FCS
teams on a variety of assignments for major companies in the UK and overseas. Thorough in-house
training is given in a wide range of business skills and the opportunity exists to be sponsored to study for
an MBA at a top business school after two years with the Firm.
Limited vacancies exist for outstanding graduates to join FCS in October 1991.
Further information will be available at a presentation on:-
Wednesday 6 February 1991
at 6.00 p.m.
at 1 Surrey Street, London
or from Gillian Jones, Arthur Andersen and Co., 1 Surrey Street, London WC2
Interviews will be conducted on Thursday 7 February 1991.
Brochures and application forms are available from your Careers Service.
A r t h u r
A n d e r s e n
A R T H U R A N D E R S E N & CO., S.C.
F i a ti ii c in I
Co ii s it I i i ng
Scrviccs
Jean-Francoise Lucas (Physics 1987-90) explains how he chose his career and how his
work has developed in his first year of life after IC.
Where John Cleese Went Wrong
Probably for many of you the time has
come to make the biggest decision of
your life. The question is what career do
you want to throw yourself into now that
you have finished your degree?
I was in that same position about 12
months ago, undecided as to whether to
go into Marketing or into the popular and
demanding area of Accountancy. In the
end, I chose Accountancy and the chance
to acquire one of the premier business
qualifications, the internationally
recognised Chartered Accountancy
qualification.
Of course, having made that decision, I
was faced with another—which firm did I
want to join? The various recruitment
brochures and articles were an important
source of information to help with this,
but by far the most persuading evidence
was what I learned by meeting and
talking to people already working with
the various firms, and it was on that basis
that I chose A r t h u r Andersen.
internationally, Arthur Andersen is one
of the largest firms of accountants, tax
and law consultants in the world. It is a
young firm, staffed by young people, and
it prides itself on working hard to achieve
its objectives in every area of its business.
Y o u should remember that there are
many different specialisations wihtin
accountancy at Arthur Andersen. A n
important tip before making your decision
is to analyse carefully the pro's and con's
of each one. I chose the Tax Consultancy
division.
Actually, the name 'Tax Consultancy'
probably doesn't do justice to the range
of areas covered. As an example, my
group has just finished advising on the
leveraged buy-out of an international
consumer product group. As well as
advising on how to structure the deal so
that the most favourable tax position was
achieved in the 19 different countries
where the group operates, we were
involved in deciding which currencies the
senior and mezzanine finance should be
borrowed in, how to remit blocked funds
to Europe from Latin A m e r i c a n and Asian
countries, negotiating the terms of the
sale and purchase contracts with the
seller, and a whole range of other legal
questions, Monopolies Commission issues
and general business decisions. There is
no doubt that being part of the Arther
Andersen team on a deal like that is a
very quick way to learn how
international business operates.
It did not surprise me m u c h to learn
that the job involves a lot of hard work
and commitment, but in return I have
been involved in a range of stimulating
assignments and have had the
opportunity to travel abroad and work
with colleagues from all around the
world. A lot of early responsibility has
been given to me matched by in-house
training on how to handle that
responsibility.
There is also a well defined career
structure, so that I know where I can
expect to be in the years ahead provided
that I keep up my efforts—indeed, there
are quite a few Imperial graduates w h o m
I work with here who have been
promoted to manager and have increased
their starting salaries fivefold within 4 or
5 years of leaving Imperial.
Hopefully this will give y o u a clearer
picture of what accountancy can offer
you and what Arthur Andersen is all
about. Don't get me wrong it's not all
about just work. In the office everybody
has a very professional attitude but when
the social life starts...well...I'll leave that
up to you to find out!!
21

