Imperial Announces New
Science park at Duffryn:
Scale 1:25,000
A new science park is to be developed in
South Wales. The park, situated in
Newport, will be developed jointly by
Imperial College, the Welsh Development
Agency and Newport Borough Council.
Construction work is expected to start
on the 40 acre site this summer. The first
phase will involve the building of a £2
million technology centre, to be called
'Imperial House'. This will house high-
technology companies, and is to be
managed by Imperial College. Imperial
already have experience in managing the
science park at the Silwood Park
outstation.
The rector, Sir Eric Ash, said he was
delighted to have this opportunity of
widening Imperial's collaboration with
industry, through the availability of such
a magnificent site in Newport.
The collaborators hope that high-tech
companies will base themselves around
the science park, where they will have
access to the academic resources of the
college in London. To enable this,
communication links are to be installed,
providing voice, data and video links.
Newport Council hope that eventual
investment in the new development will
exceed £100 million, with associated
regional job creation. They expect the
name of Imperial College to act as a
magnet to draw in both national and
international companies to the site. The
park will make Newport one of the
leading sites of commercial research in
Britain.
The Secretary of State for Wales, David
Hunt, said: 'This is marvellous news and
will give a tremendous boost to the
Welsh economy. This project is yet
another example of partnership in action.'
During the period 1989/90 the college
received £39 million in income for
research projects conducted on behalf of
industry and government departments.
Sports Centre Refund Rethink
The sports centre have altered the new
lockers recently installed in the changing
rooms. The lOp required to operate the
lockers is now returnable. A student
commented 'they've come to their senses
again'. A spokesman at the sports centre
confirmed that all the lockers had been
converted, but would not say w h y they
had reversed their previous decision.
In a letter to the manager of the Sports
Centre, Dr K e n Bignell of the Space &
Atmospheric Physics.Group, said that the
new lockers were unsatisfactory in
several respects. They have no shelf to
allow the separation of shoes and clothes.
The doors are sprung so that the doors
return to the closed position, thus making
them a w k w a r d to use. The open shelf
that was at the base of the old lockers
has now gone, so, apart from the floor,
there is nowhere to put wet or dirty
items while changing. His key complaint,
regarding the non-returnable lOp deposit,
has now been rectified.
2

