Flexible
Friend
All full-time home students at Imperial
are eligible to apply for the student
access funds, which are a Government
provision against hardship resulting from
the withdrawal of housing and other
benefits.
Registry have reported that take-up for
the access funds has been slow, possibly
because many students feel that they do
not fit into the so-called eligible
categories. This is not the case: there is a
safety net whereby any student facing
financial difficulty can be considered for
payment. Yve Posner, the Union Welfare
Officer, has said that all students with any
financial problems should apply.
The nominal closing date for
applications is 8 February, and application
forms are available from r o o m 344 in the
Sherfield building.
Eccentric?
'In Pursuit of Eccentrics' - Dr David
Weeks from the Royal Edinburgh Hospital
will be giving two lectures on his search
for 'persons who deviate from normal
forms of behaviour, especially in a bizarre
manner'. He has uncovered over 4000 so
far, who find eccentricity a good strategy
for survival.
D r Weeks will be showing videos of
some of the most eccentric eccentrics.
These include the w o m a n that kept a red
plastic lobster w i t h her, lovingly stroking
it when seated, and the man who likes to
dress up as a pink elephant and abseil
d o w n buildings. H e claims to have cured
more alcoholics than any doctor.
Both lectures will be on Wednesday 6
February in Lecture Theatre 1, Physics
department. The first lecture will start at
1.15pm, all are welcome. The second
lecture will be a public lecture, to
commence at 5.30pm. Because of safety
requirements, numbers will be restricted.
Imperial College Committee
to Stop War in the Gulf
a
The Chairman of the Anti-War Committee, Philip Gribben
O n 31 January the Imperial College
Committee to Stop War in the Gulf met
for the first time. F r o m a turn-out of
about forty, eight people volunteered for
the committee. The committee's
immediate concern was to d r u m up
support for this Saturday's march through
central London.
One of the current objectives of the
British anti-war movement is to raise it's
profile nationally as international peace
protests gather momentum.
Demonstrations in Washington, B o n n and
Berlin have attracted mass public support
while last week's London m a r c h had a
comparatively low turn-out.
Imperial's committee for peace does not
want any party political ties. It intends to
join the national 'Committee to Stop W a r
in the G u l f and hopes to be the shortest
lived Imperial College society ever.
Gulf War Soc
This week, a pro-Gulf W a r society was
formed at Imperial. A spokesman said
that their aim was 'to promote the
ancient but sadly neglected art of
warfare'. 'Saddam must be thrown out,
not only from Kuwait, but also from Iraq.
This will promote regional instabilities,
resulting in further warfare in the region.'
It is rumoured that the new society is
being sponsored by a German chemical
warfare industry.
The chairman of Dassault, the French
aerospace group, has been invited to
speak at the next meeting of the society
on January 15.
A minor incident occured when
supporters of the pro-war society clashed
with the anti-war society. Apparently 12
of the pro-war supporters were killed,
while casualties among the anti-war
supporters ran into hundreds.
Bicycle Security
Yes, we say the same thing every week;
buy a D-lock, chains are not secure, but
bikes are still being stolen each week.
This time there's a new angle: your bike
is not safe even if you take it to your
office...
This week, bicycles have been stolen
from the basement of the Royal School of
Mines and from the eighth floor of the
Electrical Engineering Department. This is
not, however, the first time bicycles have
been stolen from departments; in the last
few years the top floors of Physics and
C h e m Eng have also been hit.
College Security ask students to be
wary as bicycle thieves are continuously
active around the college. A rear wheel
has been stolen from below Sherfield, and
two suspects chased off from the rear of
the Science Museum Library. Security
would also like students to be vigilant for
suspicious packages or unattended bags -
please keep your o w n property with you.
It makes sense to secure your bike to
something immovable with a D-lock.
These cost £20.50 and are available from
College security on level 1 Sherfield,
extension 3370.
3

