St
FELIX
A meditation on anthropism, religion, immortality, politics, tl
What About The
I a m never sure whether the plural of
break-through is break-throughs or
breaks-through, but there have been
several in the last few years, under the
above heading. The lads w h o specialise in
the big bang, the universe and everything
have proved that if the constants and
laws of physics differed from those we
actually have b y even the tiniest degree,
no sentient life could have ever evolved
anywhere in the cosmos. In other words
the universe would have been
unobservable, since there would have
been no one to observe it. There may of
course be other, unobservable, universes
but who is to say?
Is it possible to imply that this is all too
much of a coincidence—that it therefore
must 'all be for some purpose'—without
being thought to have made a religious
statement? Not necessarily of the 'bearded
grandfather figure dispensing miracles
and dire retribution from a pink cloud'
variety (judging by what has happened to
telephone kiosks in our neighbourhood,
divine retribution seems to be a little thin
on the ground lately; we were in fact told
as much on the highest ecclesiastical
authority when York cathedral was struck
by lightning not so long ago for what
seemed to me, as a total layman, very
sensible reasons, considering the
pronouncements by the local rep).
Nonetheless, the probability against it all
coming together by random chance is
truly astronomical—and that is a purely
mathematical statement.
Now it would appear that some
religious (well, perhaps not mainstream)
thinkers have been affected by these
broad view tendencies for some time
without being turned to pillars of salt.
Teillhard de Chardin thought the
direction of Darwinian evolution to lie
broadly in a progression towards the
attributes of divinity. So if y o u happen to
believe that man's raison d'etre on earth
is to provide food for silverfish who live
on the little bits of skin that we shed
from our bodies, that hypothesis would
put paid to your creed. Unless, that is,
you have reason to believe both (a) that
silverfish are better able to survive a
nuclear environmental holocaust than we
are and (b) that they are capable of
evolving into intelligent beings without
developing the tendency to exterminate
one another in the process. The trouble
with silverfish is that at the moment they
do not appear to rate very hihgly as
potential observers of the universe. I
hope 1 am not doing them an injustice;
like Douglas Adams's white mice they
might possibly be the projections into our
dimension of pan-galactic mega-intelligent
beings, but somehow 1 doubt it. If
mankind were indeed just a rung on the
ladder, it might make more sense to
suppose that our function is to develop
artificial intelligence as a potentially more
benign form of intellect w h i c h could
observe the universe without our
tendencies to destroy the planet. We have
recently made a not unpromising start in
that direction (certainly the PC on w h i c h
this is being typed seems rapidly to be
evolving towards a mind of its own) but
it's early days yet.
Unfortunately we are programmed to
be altruistic on behalf of our genes rather
than intelligence in general. Our brains
appear to have evolved to keep the wolf,
not to mention our predatory neighbours,
from the front door and because of that
we do not seem to be at all that well
equipped to understand what it is all
about. The only tool we have for groping
towards the light is severely bent. It is a
bit like a caterpillar trying to work out
that the shortest distance from where it is
on the ground to the top of the nearest
tree, from where a hungry bird is eyeing
it, is not in fact to the bottom of the tree
and then up the trunk. It matters if you
are a caterpillar if only because, until you
start philosophising, the winged
messengers of death have such an easy
time performing caterpillar miracles by
violating caterpillar geometry. It should
matter to us for very similar reasons, as
we shall see.
Our strongest programming, no doubt,
is for self-preservation and death
avoidance. I cannot help but
The thought of dying does not cheer me
up a lot
Mostly because this is the only me I've
got.
However, I a m a bit confused as to
whether the me I am so possessive about
is the hardware or the software. The
hardware is getting so repulsive it hardly
seems worth fretting about. Besides, all
the bits it is made of have been and will
again be recycled, in due course. The
software, on the other hand, is so
thoroughly networked by what I discuss,
read, see on TV, research, etc, that I am
not convinced it is just mine; any more
than are the innumerable molecules I am
transiently playing host to.
I am generally amazingly prone to label
things 'mine'—'my children, m y land'—
perhaps by some perversion of the
territorial instinct. No doubt the early
caveman grunted 'keep away from m y
fire' and we still find nothing
preposterous about his illusion of
presuming to own an oxidation process
consuming stuff that grew! Could I be
making the same mistake about 'my'
consciousness, 'my' intelligence? Perhaps
it's not so m u c h that I have consciousness
as that some universal consciousness has
me. After all, I a m definitely misguided in
the way I regard as being 'me' the
molecules I have just incorporated into
my body w h i c h were a part of yours a
little while ago. W e ought to try and
understand h o w M u m Nature works this
trick, even if we are not going to groom
computers or silverfish to take over,
because the delusion evidently causes a
lot of misery.
It seems to me that the thing w h i c h
gives us the conviction of a single T,
from cradle to grave is essentially just a
memory circuit. In the way the stuff of
which we are made continuously passes
through us, while we retain a self-similar
shape, we are rather like waves in a sea
of matter. By way of a somewhat
inadequate analogy which nevertheless
helps us to see ourselves from an
external point of view, compare this with
a wave on a sea of water. If that had a
memory, it would remember being born
far out at sea, it would experience the
passage of time because of its fixed speed
of progression and, eventually break, 'die'
and lose its identity on reaching the
shore. To become immortal and timeless,
all that is required is the realisation—
quite obvious to any uninvolved
observer—that the wave is the water, the
universe and everything..!
Fish?
particles of w h i c h do not even travel
along with it whilst assuming its form.
Now, if the wave did have a memory,
this realisation would be out of its reach.
This is because the memory must record
experiences of the wave form, not of the
constituent particles whose histories may
all be different, if only because so many
particles are required to form a memory.
Here the analogy wears thin because
there is no reason w h y a wave should
have a memory, whereas it is essential
for the working of the evolutionary
scheme that we should. Without it, there
would be no self-awareness and the
obvious way of ensuring that a
mechanism will continue to be self-
maintaining—indeed self-improving—is to
make it strongly egocentric. This will
motivate it to avoid damage to itself, to
fight to keep alive its present form and to
pro-create in a way w h i c h involves the
choice of the fittest (in the biological
sense) partner available. The difficulty we
have in accepting these concepts are built
in; our minds are constructed so as to
suppress experiences w h i c h cause us to
doubt our self-ness.
The ancient Eastern philosophies have
some astonishing insights into such
matters, all the more remarkable for
being obtained by introspection and in
the mysterious Fe-
ignorance of current scientific knowledge.
Buddhists might regard the above
remarks about ownership as little more
than creative plagiarism from the
Buddha's teachings on non-attachment.
Again, when the Yogi says not 'I am
dying' but 'I observe m y body to be
dying' or, in non-terminal days, when he
attempts to attain the nirvana of pure
consciousness in meditation by banishing
his thought and sensory inputs, he is
cultivating the perception that 'he is the
water, not the wave' and hence his
immorality. This ecstatic state cannot be
rationalised in conventional evolutionary
useful values, unlike the euphoria induced
by the aquisition of a new car, for
example. It appears to be more like the
elation induced by a beautiful sunset
which appears equally pointless in
utilitarian terms.
Could we live according to such
beliefs—could we so transcend our
evolutionary programming and would our
society fall apart if we did? A l l the
evidence suggests that any kind of
idealism and altruism doesn't stand a
chance against our egocentric
programming—look how quickly 'from
each according to his ability, to each
according to his needs' became 'from
each according to his coercibility, to each
according to his Party rank'! However,
we do now have the beginning of a
movement w h i c h cares for the
environment in the longer term and, after
all, what could be more selfish than
seeking personal enlightenment? If
opinion polls are to be believed, Vsrds of
the population in any case have an innate
conviction regarding some sort of survival
after death and the pursuit of immortality
is a wonderfully egocentric activity. For
that matter, remnants of inner
contentment evidently can be turned to
practical use—like the willingness to work
excessive hours—judging by the way the
industrialised Buddhist societies of the Far
East appear to be taking over.
Perhaps what it is all about is so big
and simple that we cannot grasp it (any
more than the caterpillar can
comprehend bird geometry). Something
like the sea of consciousness, intelligence,
needing eyes, ears, sensors to experience
the material universe, to observe it
existing and functioning. Some of us may
have to put this into faithspeak by saying
that the function of man is to praise the
Lord. The risk is that, if it isn't people,
perhaps it could be machine intelligence,
silverfish or little green men from another
galaxy. At least we should put in our bid.
Fe-Wei.
World Leaders
in Student Travel
• Low Cost Flights on Quality
Airlines
• Special Fares for Students
© Weekend Breaks, Tours &
Group Bookings
• Well Travelled Staff to
Guide You
• Over 100 Offices
Worldwide
ULU Travel
Imperial College
Sherfield Building
London SW7
I
r l
ULU TRAVEL
City and Quilds
MlL'Ki c
T<K%Dr
<Dc
LLlVc
E(
Ry
Thursday 14th Jtb
Confidentiality Assured
'Bookings taken before
Monday 11th feb
In Quilds Office Cost: from £5. oo

