• R o c k y
HY o u r average 'Critic' (ie a person
who gets paid to slag films off) will
probably hate this. During the press
showing several of them gave perfect
examples of how to maintain objectivity
and suppress innate prejudice. They did
this by ridiculing the film before it
started, and then meeting several parts of
it with derisive laughter (they hadn't seen
it before: I asked).
A n y w a y , enough of 'professional' critics.
This, the last (so we're told) of the Rocky
series continues immediately after the not
so realistic Rocky IV. To give you a
rough idea, Rocky returns to A m e r i c a to
find all his money gone due to a crooked
accountant. He retires from boxing, sells
his mansion, car, motorbike, gloves, etc,
to repay what debts he has, and moves
to a run-down house in Philadelphia.
Then he finds out that '...the continued
heavy blows to the head...' have given
him partial brain damage, and to fight
again could cripple him (so it's a good job
that he's retired). There then follow
various family and personal problems.
Most of these are caused by a corrupt
boxing promoter who wants Rocky to
fight again.
Then a young fighter called T o m m y
Gunn turns up, and persuades Rocky to
train him. G u n n does very well, but is
finally tempted away by the money,
women, and cars offered by the
aforementioned nasty promoter. He then
fights for and wins the W o r l d Title. Due
to some clever psychology the nasty
promoter persuades him that to be
accepted by the public he must fight
H| What do you give the wife who has
| everything? Valium. What do you
call a fear of valium?
Klaus-traphobia.
Klaus von B u l o w has been tried,
sentenced and aquitted of the crime of
attempted murder of his wife (with
valium—see above). This is a true story.
It must be difficult to make a film about
a story in w h i c h the true sequence of
events is still u n k n o w n . So instead we see
the story from the perspective of a group
of lawyers preparing a case for the
appeal hearing. So we have a film that
functions on two levels; the cerebral
tension of the uncertainty over the
innocence of Klaus, w h i c h is inherently
fascinating, and the more standard
adrenaline rush of the race against time.
The performances are perfect. Jeremy
Irons is superbly uptight as the repressed
Klaus. Glenn Close turns in a performance
as good as one would expect of her, as
the addictive (take your pick as to
substance...) wife. (Can't wait to see her
Gertrude in the up-coming Hamlet). The
V
Rocky. This they then do, but not in the
way you'd expect, and I'm not telling you
w h o wins. So there.
There are two ways of watching this
film. The first was aptly demonstrated by
the critics, ie go into it with no intention
of enjoying it. The second is to try to
keep an open m i n d and enjoy the film for
what it is. I tried the second, and despite
the heavy-handed emotionalism, did find
myself willing Rocky to w i n in the last
scenes, which I appreciate is rather sad,
but there you go.
To sum up, it is the best of the series
since the first (which deserved the three
oscars it won out of the ten that it was
nominated for), probably due, at least in
part, to having the same director as the
first one. If y o u enjoyed the first one, are
a big 'Rocky' fan, or just fancy trying
something that may turn out better than
you think, then go along.
Alien Sex Fiend.
supporting cast are excellent, even if they
are playing those particularly nauseating
American graduates—lawyers.
This is all good. I enjoyed watching the
film. So w h y does it worry me? Two
reasons, mainly. Firstly, having a woman
(who is still alive, even if she is,
effectively, a vegetable) narrating the
story from a coma is a little sick.
Secondly, one never feels emotionally
involved, watching the film is a
dispassionate affair. Yet I enjoyed doing
so immensely. H m m m .
Pendragon.
LSO
27/1/91
C
The L S O can count amongst its
ranks m a n y players who are fine
soloists in their o w n right. This
concert gave some of the principals of
the brass and woodwind sections the
chance to take centre stage for the
evening.
Maurice M u r p h y and Rod Franks
opened the concert with Vivaldi's
Concerto in C for Two Trumpets.
Although they were not ideally matched
for tone and musical quality, their playing
was tight and this was without a doubt
the outstanding performance of the
evening.
Vaughan Williams' Tuba Concerto was
tackled by Patrick Harrild. His playing
style was more suited to the rapid
passages rather than the slow, lyrical
sections, and the performance was not
technically perfect, but this was
nevertheless an entertaining piece.
In contrast, the third piece was
Bernstein's Halil, for flute and orchestra.
Written in m e m o r y of an Israeli flautist
killed during national service, this piece is
essentially a nocturne in w h i c h tonal and
non-tonal elements are in conflict. The
piece is haunting, suggestive of both the
futility of war and hope in life. Paul
Edmund-Davies gave a mesmerising and
accomplished performance as the solo
flute, ably supported by the remainder of
the flute section.
Returning refreshed and rested from the
interval, the audience was confronted
with an eight piece brass ensemble (four
trumpets, two trombones, horn and tuba)
who romped through Ingol-Dahl's Music
for Brass with, on the whole, tight, stylish
and accurate playing.
A n d r e w Marriner gave the gutsiest
performance of the evening, playing
Copland's Clarinet Concerto. This was
composed as a commission for Benny
Goodman, and while it opens in
unmistakable (and rather tedious) Copland
style, it livens considerably with the
central cadenza, in w h i c h the soloist has
ample opportunity to demonstrate his
virtuosity. The second half is then much
brisker, with a great sense of fun.
Marriner's performance was blistering and
powerful.
The evening ended with a performance
of Ravel's La Valse. F r o m the moment
Tilson Thomas strode on stage and
ostentatiously slapped shut his copy of
the score, indicating that he was going to
conduct from memory, the audience
knew they were probably in for
something special. The piece perfectly
captures the sense of the lost, doomed
world of Imperial Europe in the mid-
nineteenth century, waltzing itself to
destruction. Tilson Thomas' energetic
conducting nearly waltzed him off his
podium, but this was a fine example of
the considerable talents of the LSO as an
ensemble.
Liz W.
Reversal Of Fortune
6

