Havana
London Symphony Orchestra &
Chorus and Southend Boys Choir
Havana (directed by Sydney
Pollack) is set on the eve of 1959
and the Castro's revolution.
The hedonism and decadence of the rich
is about to give way to the sober realities
of the impoverished. Jack W e i l (Robert
Redford) is the gambler w h o thinks that
the night before the revolution is the
ultimate time to make a big killing.
However, he falls for Roberta Duran
(Lena Olin, w h o won an Oscar for her
role in The Unbearable Lightness of
Being).
Roberta Duran happens to be married
to a committed revolutionary, who
belongs to one of the most wealthy and
powerful families in Havana. Jack stakes
everything on Roberta, thinking he has
found his lucky break in life—however he
is unable to understand w h y she has to
be involved i n or committed to the
revolution. It is this contrast that Sydney
Pollack brings across most successfully in
the film. Whereas Jack has spent his life
drifting from one city to another, without
any ties or bonds, almost lacking any
values or vision, the woman he falls for
in the end is his exact opposite. She has a
cause.
In the final analysis, however, the film
isn't held together very well: it rambles
on for almost 2
>
/
2 hours. The lavish sets
and locations are unable to detract from
the fact that Roberta and Jack don't
actually make a very convincing couple,
or that the politics of the revolution
(expressed through Roberta) portayed in
the film are very simplistic (though this
can be forgiven on the grounds that this
is, after all, Hollywood romance).
The best performance in the film
probably comes from A l a n Arkin's Joe
Volpi—the owner of the plush Lido
Casino, playground of the wealthy about
to lose it all. Joe can see the doom about
to befall him and his clientele, but there
is a grim acceptance in h i m which
becomes almost noble.
By the way, even if you don't see the
film, you have to hear the soundtrack. It's
hot.
I.H.
—Concert
— F i l m
One could be forgiven for thinking
that in this performance conductor
-
Richard Hickox was indulging in a
private joke at the expense of
Christianity. Stravinsky's devout
Symphony of Psalms was paired with
Orff's setting of the irreverent irreligious
monastic poems found in Beuern in
Bavaria. In style as well, he contrasted
and emphasised the brooding, serious
nature of the Stravinsky with the joyous
lust for life evident in Carmina Burana.
The Symphony of Psalms is scored for
an unusual orchestra, consisting primarily
of wind instruments and two pianos, and
does not follow the standard symphonic
form. The orchestra and chorus handled
the subtleties of the piece well and
provided an excellent contrast to the
Barbican Hall, 6/1/91
second half.
Hickox emphasised the power of
Carmina Burana through ice-sharp singing
from the chorus, particularly in the
central passages of Fortuna Imperatrix
Mundi. Of the soloists, Donald Maxwell
was particularly outstanding, at times
seeming to get carried away with the
performance, but always displaying the
excellence of the wide range of talents he
is capable of.
This performance pulled the audience
through the ranges of emotion and at
times was too large even for the
expansive spaces of the Barbican Hall.
This is a performance that will long
remain in the memory.
L i z W .
Kindergarten Cop
Big Arnie is not the sort of person
that you ever really imagine as
being out of their depth. John
Kimble (Guess who?) is not the sort of
Cop who you imagine ever being run all
over by anyone. He's the sort of person
who breaks up parties with a BIG gun
while declaring 'Next time, m y place!',
before threatening a witness into giving
evidence. He's the sort of cop who can
go undercover anywhere safely. Except a
primary school.
We've seen A r n o l d pitted against
everything from invisible predators to
Linda Hamilton's scream, and come out
unscathed. For the first time he finds a
group that he can't use an Uzi on.
Twenty kicking, screaming, wetting and
disobedient toddlers. It's a brilliant idea.
The first twenty minutes plays like a
straight Schwartzenegger movie, then we
suddenly find Our Hero hyper-ventilating
outside a classroom. The sublime contrast
of what we expect an A r n i e character to
be, compared to what he is forced to
become is the root of this comedy. It
works brilliantly!
Twins proved that Arnie had the ability
to be funny, and this film only serves to
impress me further with his abilities. Both
as straight m a n to others (his partner, his
headmistress, his kids) and as a deliverer
of gags in his own right, he turns in the
goods. He's allowed a love affair, that
results in some genuinely touching
moments, and his partner putting on an
Austrian accent for the course of a meal
(I ham hiz zizter..). A N D he only shoots
the one person.
A pleasant smatter of all y o u would
expect in a film from Ivan (Ghostbusters)
Reitman. Violence, love and comedy. This
is a good film. This is a wholesome film.
This is a funny film. To paraphrase the
film...
When it comes to the critic's test,
Kindergarten is the best...
P e n d r a g o o .
We would like to appologise for the
effusiveness of this review. Pendragon is
now on a steady diet of George Elliot
Novels (the big, boring ones) until he
recovers.

