The Slow Moving Snail ignites a new Books column with...
Books For Burning
Reading is difficult, even once it is learnt
it still requires concentration and time.
W e invest a lot in trying to give meaning
to the words on the printed page. The
beauty of literature is that it is a doorway
to a world of characters and events that
we personally create, together with the
author. Unlike film or theatre, books
enable us to join the writer in the act of
creation. This makes us vulnerable. Our
intimate involvement with the concepts
can make us, at least feel, a party to the
crimes committed by the writer.
This is w h y we must trust that writers
and publishers will have artistic and
cultural reasons behind their work. For if
profit is the entire motive w e won't just
be reading rubbish, our minds might be
creating events that would make us vomit
if we were merely to see them on the
screen.
Books like William Heffernan's Ritual
turn readers into dreaming 'snuff film
producers. It is the most effective
intellectual torture device I have come
across. It does so, not through boredom,
but by direct corruption of the values of
the reader.
It is said that 'The pen is mightier than
the sword' but here it is transformed into
the ritualistic torturer's knife, portrayed
on the cover dripping blood. The real
sadistical criminal in this book is the
author, who expects you to imagine a
scene of ultimate humiliation, when you
become a powerless voyeur to your o w n
slow death via the sacrificial knife. A
metaphor I would use to describe the
effects of this book on any conscious
human being.
John Mortimer, the author of Rumpole
books amongst others, has argued that all
and any book should be published. This is
really an expression of the abhorrence of
censorship as a way of social control. In
Ray Bradbury's Farenheit 451 books are
burnt and all we have left is state
ST MARY'S HOSPITAL
MEDICAL SCHOOL
PRESENTS
JESUS CHRIST
SUPERSTAR
25TH FEBRUARY TO 29TH FEBRUARY
AVAHLAIBLIE TO a j l u l
C A L L SMKDN ©IE MEILEN
TICKETS ARE GOING FAST SO CALL SOON
TO AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT!
television that aims to be non-political,
non-religious and non-controversial. Mind-
numbing social dramas in w h i c h nothing
of consequence happens, just like
Neighbours! Do we really need a 'Big
Brother' to reduce our thought-levels to
that of obedient dogs when w e
voluntarily do it to ourselves by the
millions.
Cheap books written for a popular
market ironically provide, for me, the
greatest fuel for the 'burning of books'
argument. These books are an insult to
our minds and a threat to our human
dignity.
O n Friday February 1, at 10.00pm in
front of the F E L I X Office, I will be
burning the three books I have reviewed
in this article. A n y o n e w h o has tragically
been given, or unknowingly bought,
similar rubbish can join me with theirs. If
there are enough of us we can have a
barbecue!
Rose of the Prophet has two amazing
qualities, it was written by two people
and is the final part in a trilogy. Someone
must have bought volumes I and II? The
book has a map at the front and a
glossary of terms at the back, inbetween
there is sandwiched 386 pages of
language reduced to such inexpressible
tedium as sentences like 'The word fell
like a thunderbolt...' (p.136), 'Their
screams split through the voice of the
mob like a whistling sword blade...'
(p.334). Choose any at random. As an
exercise in their training for GCSE
English why...?
The last book is Diana Stainforth's
Friends and Other Enemies. Her
'Acknowledgements' is a thank you to all
the wealthy and useful people she met
while researching the book, as she had
such fun. This presumably, and in Diana's
case unashamedly, is one reason, in
addition to money, for writing such a
book. It is an easier and quicker read
than the other two, as it has a great
number of very short paragraphs,
especially in terms of dialogue. To sum it
up, in the words of the cover, it is 'set
against a background of international
polo and transatlantic airlines'.
Dear A r r o w Books Ltd, I wish to write
a book on a jet-setting, international,
womanising chess grandmaster, who goes
mad because of the double stress of the
game and being a spy. But I will need to
research...
H o w does one recognise these books
you may ask? After exhaustive research I
have concluded that they all have covers
that are colour with gold metallic sheen
and embossing. If ICU Bookstore is
anything to go by students here are not
appreciators of anything remotely
resembling literature.
Next week a celebration of the art of
writing and the enjoyment of reading, as
expressed recently by, of all people, Her
Majesty's Inspectorate of Schools.

