Michael Newman examines humanist values and gives another
view of...
Life and Death
Last Sunday the 'Everyman' programme
on BBC1 broadcast the story of the death
of a young w o m a n from leukaemia. It
movingly showed the support she
received from her family and the help
given to them by a Humanist counsellor.
It is often a surprise to people to find out
that those w h o have rejected faith in God
are contributing to social and moral,
welfare explicitely within a framework of
non-belief, that is as humanists. In
countries like Holland humanists are on
equal terms with theistic religions in
terms of their contributions to the care of
people within society. Sadly in this
country the law and government funding
do not allow such parity.
Humanists are unfairly discriminated
against, as if their beliefs are still not
recognised as respectable. One American
book, Your Quest for God by R A
Bennett, actually states, 'In our day Satan
continues his nasty work through the
deceptive teachings of secular humanism',
and a member of the House of Lords
during the 1988 Education Debate
declared that if you do not believe in God
you could have no values!
The British Humanist Association is
fighting for its counsellors to be
recognised as 'spiritual' advisers with the
same visiting rights as clergymen in H M
prisons. It is also fighting against insidious
campaigns of Christians like Baroness C o x
who want to force their religion onto our
children as a part of a moral campaign.
She managed to get passed an *
amendment to the Education Act forcing
Christian worship on school children,
unless the school or individual child opt
out! this was done during a late sitting of
the Lords, with few members being
present. Most secondary schools in this
country are probably, very deliberately,
breaking that law! Indeed Humanists are
on over twenty-five Local Education
Authority committees that advise schools
on religious education and worship. In
one, in London, the Humanist has been
elected as its chairman!
Humanists have a history of social
contribution to our society. They have, at
the cost of their own freedoms and
money, fought for the freedom of speech
and belief. A humanist housing
association owns over one thousand
properties in this country in which it
houses the needy and elderly. There was
a humanist adoption agency to break the
monopoly the church once had over who
was allowed to be adoptive parents. They
campaign in parliament on moral issues
such as abortion, pre-embryo research,
euthanasia and capital punishment.
Whilst the anti-abortion lobby were
sending plastic models of foetuses to MPs
the British Humanist Association was
sending them a leaflet that examined the
moral issues, this received praise from the
New Scientist and various professional
medical groups.
But some of their most important work
is done on an individual basis within our
communities. These include humanist
ceremonies. Humanist weddings and
funerals go back to the last century.
Nehru, the first Indian prime minister,
stated in his will that he wanted a funeral
with no mention of God. A copy of this
document along with an essay on his
thought about religion can be obtained
from the Huxley Society bookstall (Friday
lunchtimes in the JCR). Indeed the
demand for ceremonies has increased so
much that trained humanist celebrants, or
officiants, w h o conduct the ceremonies on
behalf of the families, could not cope with
the numbers. Two books have been
published w h i c h encourage families to
conduct their own ceremonies. The
author of these, Jane W y n n e Willson,
chairwoman of the British Humanist
Association, will be talking about them
this Thursday (see What's On).
Humanist funerals are a celebration of
the life that has just ended. Instead of a
sermon (in many of our churches
normally irrelevant to the life of the
person who has died), the family listens
to a short speech that describes the
deceased and significant moments in their
life. The family either write parts of the
address or are interviewed by the
officiant. In both cases, the bereaved are
able to share their loss, and turn this into
a personal statement that is shared
together at the ceremony. Some families
read pieces of favourite poetry and listen
to the deceased's favourite music.
The first funeral I conducted was of a
man who was much loved by his family
and those who came to k n o w him. It was
a well-attended funeral. M y speech was
written for me by the daughter-in-law,
except for m y introductory and
concluding remarks which gave
significance to the importance of
remembering and learning from the lives
of those we love. It was the first funeral I
have been to where people laughed, they
laughed together not at cheap jokes but
at shared memories of humourous times
they had had together. The man had
been a DIY enthusiast constructing his
own shed w h i c h fell down on him,
knocking him out. Tears m i x e d with
laughter, both giving public expression to
a shared w a r m t h and respect. This is one
way humanists express their attitude to
life. That day, having the honour of
expressing their memories of him to his
family, I felt exhilarated with life.
Tragically some people fail to
understand the nature of these funerals.
A clergyman in Belfast was campaigning
last year to prevent them from taking
place in city cemeteries or crematoria.
Somehow he felt they were offensive.
Last year, the mother of a young man
who died from AIDS, held up the funeral
for six months by contesting his will in
which he stated that he wanted a
humanist funeral. They argued that he
was not mentally competent when
making the will, and that his atheism was
not genuine. He had been a member of
the National Secular Society for nearly
thirteen years, and an atheist for many
more. His mother was a born-again
Christian who believed AIDS to be
satanic. The funeral was well attended
with his friends but no member of his
family turned up.
Humanist weddings are a public
celebration of the love of a couple,
whether they are heterosexual,
homosexual or lesbian. The promises
made between the couple are realistic
and normally show a philosophy of
equalness, respect and sharing. The
couple write their own ceremony,
choosing the venue and music. It
becomes an event that is personal to
them and their family. Sadly humanists
are second class citizens where the law
applies to weddings, they still have to
register at the Registrar's Office, though
Edwina Currie, before her resignation,
started changes that will allow couples to
marry and register in places other than
those of regular worship or council
offices.
Michael Newman.

