Letters
Sabbatical
credibility
Dear Judith,
Thanks for your full page editorial of last week. It does
serve to explain a little of why you do things the way you
do. It does not however absolve you from what a number
of people feel you have been guilty of, which is unfair
and biased reporting.
I agree entirely that FELIX should 'inform, entertain
and criticise'. FELIX has been informative. FELIX in
certain editions has even been entertaining. Above all
FELIX certainly has been critical. Congratulations, Judith,
you've achieved your aims, but what good has it done?
In answer, none whatsoever! You know as well as I do
that the Union without the support of its students is almost
powerless within College. In fact at this point in time
College dictates to the students how they should live, what
they should study, what they should eat, how their money
is spent etc. Can I take it that all the students are happy
with this because they don't voice their opinions? Or is
it that the students don't have the interest or the confidence
in the Union to support it fully? My guess is the latter.
It's not only inside of College that the Union has to have
some kind of credibility. Potentially, with the facilities
and resources it has available, ie rooms, trading outlets,
vans etc, the Union could almost be self-funding. To
compete it has to appear professional and organised. In
future, with the introduction of Gerbill, the Union may
cease to get funding from College, isn't it wise that
somebody should be trying to ensure the future of the
Union. The aim of the new job descriptions and the
employment of the new Union staff is to try and portray
an air of professionalism and organisation. Against a lot
of inertia from people who would like to discuss things
year in, year out, before anything is done, Sydney
Harbour-Bridge (ne Howgate) has finally got the ball
rolling. You may feel it's going in the wrong direction,
it's up to the students to direct it.
You have been very critical of the Union and especially
of Sydney but has this criticism been at all constructive?
Has it hell! You've taken relations between the Union,
FELIX and the students quite a few steps backward and
in so doing have made the Union a laughing stock within
College. Now, I believe that you're only trying to point
out the many things that are wrong with the Union by your
criticism but the manner in which you've criticised has
been totally destructive. Your citicism has been levelled
on quite a personal basis, it has been quite often unfair,
though not always unjust, and it has been too selective.
Why is it that Sydney's received all the shit for not having
written to FELIX when Alan Rose has written just as little
and has received no 'criticism'? This is one but long-
standing affair.
I agree FELIX should not be solely a mouthpiece for
the Union but it should be aiming to promote the Union
as a body of students with the potential to twist the arm
of College so that actions are taken to benefit the students
as a whole as those students feel fit. You're right the
President is a puppet but he's a puppet of the students'.
A puppet is useless without the right people pulling the
strings, ie the students. A puppet is also useless without
the right character and personality to perform in every
sense of the word.
Judith you are the biggest mouthpiece in College (and
by that I mean through FELIX). You may not have a vote
on'any committees but that's because you have to be seen
to be impartial as an editor. Please use the opportunity
wisely and criticise constructively. You know full well
that Sydney has the ability to sway meetings to his favour.
Why not coordinate the students into using this ability to
express their views to the College? It's true Sydney does
have his own ideas about things and he does get a little
upset when people disagree or dislike his ideas, doesn't
everyone. But, Sydney does open himself up to suggestions
and advice. I'm saying to you and to all the students, it's
OK trying to correct the faults of the Union but it would
be a lot more beneficial to use the potential within the
Union. The students should start to use the Union and the
sabbaticals instead of allowing College to use and abuse
them.
Yours sincerely,
Neil McCluskey, Internal Services Officer Elect.
Mega-objection
Dear Judith,
I must object to the suggestion in your mega-editorial
(FELIX 804) that The Baron was dropped because 'it is
the letters page that should be used to point out
inaccuracies'. It is clear to anyone who read the 'official'
last episode, printed in Broadsheet on March 21, that you
scrapped The Baron because it ridiculed your election
results editorial. You rightly defend your editorial freedom
to 'point out the mistakes, inadequacies, dodgy dealings
and dirty tricks' of Union officers and College
administrators, but place yourself above this. Whether you
are technically a Union officer or not, why should FELIX
staff not have the freedom to criticise you?
There was never any question that The Baron should
be scrapped while it ridiculed Ian Whygate, Derek Dash,
Chas Takeiteasy, or anyone else, but as soon as it featured
Judith Largeamounts unfavourably it was out.
This is the most blatant act of censorship this year.
The Baron was always intended to be mainly
humourous, whilst making caustic observations about life
at College. It was never meant to be offensive. In re-
interpreting the events of the previous week, the obvious
source was FELIX, otherwise most students would not
have understood it. I could have written about Councils
or UGMs, but that would have made The Baron truly
cliquey, something I tried to avoid. On the day of the
election results FELIX the overwhelming topic of
discussion was not the results themselves, but the cynical
treatment given to Mr Goodwin in your editorial. Hence,
it was natural that The Baron should reflect this feeling
among the student populace. It was not a personal attack
on you.
In the last issue before Easter you said that you would
conduct a straw poll on whether the readers wanted The
Baron or not. Was this poll every carried out? If so, what
were the results?
If The Baron is every resurrected, then I hope that the
next author will be able to entertain FELIX readers without
censorship.
Finally, The Baron's review of the year will be available
for the last issue of term. Do you dare print it?
Yours, name withheld by request.
PS. Point of information: You have not printed every
letter that you have received this academic year.
PPS. Point of information: Yes I have to my
knowledge—Ed.
ill
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Riverboat Disco—Saturday August
6, 8pm to midnight. Loads of food and
fun. £7.50 per ticket from Michaelia,
Room 434, Sherfield or any queries
phone ext 3119.
• Helpers wanted for wine festival in
London. Further details phone Robert
Joseph 01-851 6070 (Wine Magazine).
FOR SALE
• Canon EOS 6 2 0 camera plus 28-70
Canon lens. Mint, unboxed, 1 yr full
warranty. Contact Farslid (int 4879) Civ
Eng. Both items £500.
• Gold Master DD/OS soft sector
96TPI 5V4 inch disks. Certified 100%
error free. Will sell at £1 each or less,
otherwise negotiatble. Interested?
Contact Abbey at 0-9421 (int) or 589
9207 (rm 214).
LOST & FOUND
• Lost, Zippo lighter, silver with floral
etching, engraved with initials S.R.I. Lost
in Southside, £5 reward offered.
Contact Stuart Ingram Chem Eng
pigeonholes.
PERSONAL
showpiece hall contraceptive
revealed...
• Bonkers are bunkered.
• Are IC Accommodation Office after
Mary Whitehouse's approval or just
loadsamoney?
• Rachael W, I lust after your mind
and your body. Your secret admirer.
• Join the real ConSoc. Beit NH101.
• Why does Rakesh read the New
Testament at 3am.
• Young, open-minded man with fetish
for small, pink shoes, wishes to share
the company of busty lady. Contact
Beit 2nd Floor.
• Intelligent, beautiful lady required.
Must be able to buy a one-way ticket
to Rio de Janeiro. Contact Patrick, Beit
Arch.
• Ping—it should be 18 inches long!
(From the guy who does the 'zippy'
impressions).
• Holbein House's new satirical
character—Bugger All Work.
• What does a compulsive gambler do,
pray to Mecca? Ask Prick.
• Trevor, you're back! xxx.
• W h o is this Chris Toumazou? Branmir.
• S.L.—Fluid Mechanics and
Thermodynamics will be no problem
but I think the Stress Analysis could do
with a little more work! Good luck.
Remember I want an A this time S.K.
• Congratulations Ann and
Chris! -Yishu.
• Why has Chas got the biggest room,
yet sleeps alone?
• Join Fridge-fill Soc, see NH88.
• Is Manoj going to get into trouble
after bursting a condom?
• Jane Sub-warden, beware of the
wrath of the Phantom Soaker.
10 Friday 3rd June 1988 FELIX

