• Is Mike Plummer really mad or does
he just need to be?
• Q. How are you, Khalid? A. F**k off!
Q. What is worse than a sexually-
deprived, immature and cheeky bastard?
A. Next year's DP.
• Dear lads—11 days and still on the
wagon—Shan.
• Congratulations to Ed and Ali.
• M y first is in Baron, which I write.
My second in boring, which is its plight,
My third is in blunder, which I regularly
make,
and my fourth is in friendly, which I
often fake,
My fifth is in nasty, full of hate,
and my last in petty, for its own sake.
• Bill G o o d w i n — A legend in his own
tardis.
• What do you mean I can't shoot him
at dawn, I'm the President aren't I?
Money for nothing, and a quiche for
free.
• Remember the Tacoma Bridge.
• W h o pays rent in Hamlet, but lives in
a single room in Weeks?
What do you get if you cross a ferret
and a Baker? A cosmic bun in the
The SFSoc committee is getting
cosmically inbred.
Rhino Club—It's hard to get the staff
these days—yag yag baggie snurf—
Qauntlet Club.
• Holbein House—Losing a basement,
but gaining a son.
• Falklands war/Gatwick airport north
terminal with cabletrain
transit/Caterham 7—latter is automobile
sold and assembled by kit with office in
Caterham—are all demonological
fabrications. Zev—Green Jacket—FELIX,
Newspaper of London Imperial College,
June 3, 1988.
• In the last decade over 10,000
individuals were killed and replaced by
doubles to have me framed as demonic
True,' some were the result of my
'Village Voice' ads 'Silence on CIA
doubler', attempts by me to force an
expose which failed, but most were
simply those I watched on TV or read
about in print. The mass murder is a
diabolical projection, to have me the
Kaposeh from Yom Kippur Day if
Atonement in the scheduled genocide
of blacks/hispanics by US and
Falashes/Sephardim/Palestinians by
Israel. Zev-Green Jacket—Gatwick
News May 28 1988, FELIX June 3
1988.
• Falklands only kind of war to have
never occurred—subterfuge was to be
followed by multinational occupation,
precursor for same for Saudi Arabia by
Shultz or Carlotti, for Israeli oil cartel
via Trans Arabian pipeline by Special
Mideast Envoy. Precluded by my Village
Voice ads. Chernobyl only kind of
nuclear disaster-fiction is hype for
US/Russian/lsraeli scenario to A-bomb
Berlin then International Herald Tribune
May 2 9 1979. Zev-Green Jacket. FELIX,
Newspaper of Imperial College June 3
1988.
ACCOMMODATION
• Single room required for 30th June
Anything considered. Contact Pippa
Salmon c/o FELIX Office.
Cold War
Dear Judith,
I am saddened by the depths to which the 'Cold War'
between FELIX and various Union representatives has
sunk. The animosity, the immaturity and above all the
pettiness do not befit those who have been elected to
positions of responsibility in the student body of a
renowned academic institution. Let us leave such
behaviour to the likes of Ronald Reagan and 'The Sun'
and show ourselves to be worthy of greater respect. The
ability to rise above the level of personal bickering and
conduct truly objective arguments is a rare but highly
desirable quality. We are perhaps influenced too much
these days by advertising and party politics (a rather
cynical form of advertising) to realise that the most
convincing disputant is the one who acknowledges the
other's point of view, whilst still believing theirs is more
valid. Maybe we suffer from a lack of History and Law
students but scientists should themselves know more than
a little about 'truth' and the deduction of 'facts' from
evidence.
At the start of the year my dealings with both FELIX
and the Union, mainly in connection with the Music Room
saga, left me with a positive impression of competent
people doing a good job. Now it seems that the obsession
of both parties with a personal dispute has left them blind
to their own faults and incapable of clear judgement.
Yours disgruntled,
Alan Downie.
I totally agree with everything you have written. I also
regret that everything has been so 'personal' this term.
I don't believe that it has ^clouded my editorial
judgement. My only obsession is to produce the best
FELIX possible each week. ^ ^^te^
Ya, boo, sucks!
Dear Judith,
It is with regret that I must write to complain about the
content of last week's FELIX. I refer, of course, to the
letters page, notably the two by Mr Neil McCluskey and
Mr David Clements.
Mr McCluskey: I'm not aware of any anonymous
contributions I've made to FELIX, short of the odd small
ad. If you do know of any, however, please don't hesitate
to contact me, either via 'UGM Chairman 88/89, Union
Office' or 'Editor's Floozie, FELIX Office'.
The reason I quoted from Council is because it was both
current and topical. If I had to wait for the production
of minutes, then I'd be waiting till eternity.
I do not doubt Mr Bridge's (name changed in aid of
Comic Relief) enthusiasm for one moment, however
misguided it may be. What I object to, is the way he
persuaded Council to adopt a particular view by feeding
them half-truths and half-baked logic.
One final note: Charisma is a rare quality and a term
that should be used sparingly. I do not feel that a President
who alienates 99% of the student population possesses such
a gift.
Mr Clements: Item one: As mentioned by Judith last
week, Mr Bridge made no objection to the amount of social
colours awarded when they were originally brought before
Publications Board—a meeting he was present at. His
objection was only made at Council when he saw who
had received colours. As I mentioned in my original letter,
this list included those who had been critical of The Bridge
in the past year. This is where I believe the deception lies
(sic).
Point of information: Less social colours were awarded
by Publications Board this year than in any year since
1984.
Item two: You miss the point. Council decided to add
not only preparing papers to Council/UGM Chair but also
updating policy. This is a decision that was previously
thrown out by a UGM—a higher body than Council.
Request for information: What right has a Council-
total maximum membership 50—got to alter a decision
made by a UGM—total maximum membership of 5000?
The main point of both your letters, I gather, is to point
out that a majority decision made at Council means that
it is a correct one. Question: How can Council members
possibly vote on a motion if they are not presented with
the full facts and are told porkies by the Union President
and/or his minions? The expression 'blind faith' springs
to mind.
Oh and Sydney, remember the Tacoma Bridge...
Cheers, Paul Shanley/Shan the Man/Judith's Floozie.
P.S. Which is better-
Jacket?
-to be Judith's floozie or Zev-Green
Legal eagle
Dear Judith,
I have always been reluctant to criticise FELIX because,
on the whole, it is extremely good. 'Blackmail', however,
has become so unpleasant recently that I feel I must write.
Firstly, 'Delator' is breaking the law in threatening to
publish names if money is not received. Section 31 of the
Larceny Act, 1916 states that it is an offence (punishable
by up to two years in prison) to: 'Threaten to publish,
or propose to abstain from publishing libellous or other
matter with intent to extort.'
If Delator's allegations are true then FELIX would
certainly have a defence against Libel but not (it would
appear) against blackmail!
Secondly, I am concerned as to the accuracy of the
information 'Delator' receives. Generally such information
would be second or third-hand and difficult to check. I
cannot see what is to stop unscrupulous people
anonymously using this column to get at those they dislike.
Lastly, I strongly object to 'Chris Jones' smarmy
apology on page five of last week's edition. (In case
anyone still doesn't know, Chris Jones is a pseudonym.)
Even if the allegations about Mr Motteram were true
(which I doubt) FELIX has still broken the law on
blackmail, as described above. If the allegations are
inaccurate then FELIX has libelled Mr Motteram as well!
'The 'apology' published by 'Chris Jones' was thus as
unwise as it was unpleasant to read.
I have asked several students for their view on
'Blackmail'. The overwhelming feeling was that 'The
Baron' had been much better. Please could we see his
return in place of 'Blackmail'?
Yours sincerely,
Nigel Stokes.
Thanks for pointing it out, Nigel. I have decided to drop
i Blackmail for the time being for the reasons you state
The Baron will be appearing in the last issue
FELIX Friday 3rd June 1988 i i

