SOMETHING BREAKING
I look outside. The sun is shining
brightly; I feel its warmth on my
back, an invitation to enjoy life. The
heat is rendered bearable by an
occasional light gust of wind, and the
refeshing coolness of the grass. I am
sitting on the edge of a cliff. Below
me, seadbirds whirl and dive and
climb on unseen currents of air, their
cries all but drowned out by the
rumble of the angry deep blue sea
battering against the rocks. At the
base of the cliff the waves are flecked
with white foam; further out the swell
is unnoticeable. and the water is just
a uniform carpet of blue-green. Near
the horizon two yachts are sailing. At
this distance only their sails are
visible.. .fleetingly I wonder what the
people on board them are doing at this
moment...what they are saying,
thinking...
The sky is an immense ceiling of
azure blue; in it, the sun stands alone.
The clouds have fled elsewhere. The
grass around me has been cropped
short by rabbits. It appears lifeless,
but behind me grasshoppers chirp
occasionally, and further off a lark
sings. The day is serene; everything
welcomes me. Nature beckons to me,
inviting me to become a part of it.
That I cannot do...I do not belong
here, with this grass, with this sea,
with this sky. My ancestors shunned
nature many ages ago, creating an
artificial world of houses and streets
and shops...that is where I belong,
with my fellow people. If I had a
choice, I would turn away from them,
and become a part of nature. Because
nature makes no judgements; nature
accepts things, beings, as they are...it
scorns nothing and no one. Nature
welcomes anything that choses to
follow nature's way. If I had a choice;
the decision has already been taken
for me.
I am sitting on a clifftop. The
geographical location doesn't
matter...it could be Cuba, New
Zealand, Canada, Easter Island or the
UK... it's just a clifftop like any other
in the world. And I don't belong
there.
I look inside. There is turmoil; inside
me everything is twisted up.. .it's been
like this a long time and it hurts. I feel
like an outcast inside. If I go back to
the place I call home, no one will
notice I am back because no one will
have noticed my absence. I know
people, but they do not know me. I
have friends, but they would not call
me their friend. Nobody cares for me;
nobody cares about me; nobody
recognises me. When I am with
people I feel invisible, because no one
sees me. All I want is to be accepted
by the society I was created by...and
even if that is not possible, then at
least let me know why I am not
acceptable. For I see no difference
between myself and other people; yet
other people are accepted, and I am
but tolerated.. .1 am a stranger to my
own kin. I ask myself why. The
question burns deep inside me like a
fiery coal, night and day, causing an
aching pain that grows and grows
until only tears can extinguish it.. .for
a while. I watch other people talking,
laughing, and I am jealous. What I
say does not interest them; when I
laugh I can only laugh at myslef. I am
an island in a sea of despair. My life
is a desert visited only by the harsh
winds of the thoughts in my mind.
My world lies in the direction of the
sun that beats doww on my back. It
is a world of people. It is a society
of which I am not a part. It refuses
to acknowledge me. I don't belong
there.
I look down. The gun rests in my
hand. It is heavy, smooth, and warm
in the heat of the day. It feels like a
friend...something that will do me a
favour...something that will selflessly
give a part of itself to help me in my
predicament.
There is more to life than just
staying alive. Life must have a
context; if life and environment are
not in harmony then the life is futile,
a simple squandering of resources that
could better be used by others, or an
interminable journey with no goal in
sight. My life is out of context with
my world.
This is not the first time I have
come to the cliff. Many times before,
with the pain welling up inside, I have
come to this place to seek the reason.
Sometimes in the face of harsh winter
gales, carrying the sting of salt spray;
sometimes in the quiet of night, with
only the moon as a witness. The cliff
is a lonely place, always providing me
with the solace I needed to decide that
I could give my world one more try.
And so I would stare out to sea for
a long time, and then wend my way
back down the path to the town. But
not this time. This time, something
is different; something, that would
previously stretch but then relax, is
breaking, about to snap. Inside, the
fires of loneliness have almost
consumed me now, leaving the shell
with no desire to live.
I am more at home on the lonely
clifftop than I am with the few people
I see in the town. But if I live, I have
no option but to live in the town, in
the world that I am supposed to be a
part of. If I live.
I close my eyes. The gun, my only
true friend, lightly touches my
temple. I feel happier than I have ever
felt before. Inside me, something has
broken.
J.D.

