5
The Dog. i?5/.
(Cast- in bronie - 46>C
H > IS cm)
-Alberto G iaconettf.
SMILE
Alberto Giacometti 1901-1966. b Switzerland
'Why does one paint or sculpt? It is the need to dominate things, and
one can only dominate by understanding. I make a head to understand
how I see, not to make a work of art.
'No one decides, 'Im going to do sculpture," or 'I'm going to do
painting.' One just does things through mania, obsession, through an
automatic need that escapes understanding.'
(Extract from—The Artist in His Studio. By Alexander Liberman.)
Nads Qureshi.
'I need to go to the loo, look after my
stuff will you?'
Smile. Yes, please abuse me. I just
love sitting at parties with your
handbag and coat. What the hell do
you need a handbag for anyway?
Haven't you got pockets? I mean look
at my pockets. No. Don't look at my
pockets. Jammed with garbage, keys,
money. God, it's all so useless.
Money and parties. What sort of
people are these? What have they
done to be here? Chatting and dancing
and drinking. Twenty-one years and
you haven't escaped each other yet,
you haven't found anything better to
do. Just look at him—slip-on shoes,
white socks, snow wash jeans.
Where's your personality? Didn't
your parents tell you? No they didn't.
They probably think you're a real
rebel with your long hair and your
earring. They sit at home in polyester,
watching the telly, eating meat and
two veg. What do they know? They
point and gesture, asserting this,
advising that, they know nothing. I
knew my parents once. They were
friendly enough, they tried to help.
My mother loved me, she used to cry
a lot and bake. My father didn't know
what to do. He read the paper,
listened to the news, he thought he
knew what was right, but he wasn't
sure. They never told me about
handbags. Or about sex. Drink. They
knew about drink. They didn't tell
me. but they knew about it. They
probably knew about sex too, but they
said nothing. Perhaps it's best. Better
than spouting bull like these fools.
Opening their mouths to put
somebody else's tongue in or let puke,
verbal or otherwise, out. God, I've
drunk too much. God. What use is
he? Probably wears slip-on shoes. He
never told me about handbags, never
told me anything, never even spoke
to me. Bet he's just a big con,
something invented by the Pope or
someone to keep us all quiet, stop us
asking awkward questions. Mind you,
judging by this crowd they couldn't
think up an awkward question if they
clubed their braincells together. So
grey and wet. Them and their
braincells. Why am I sitting here,
looking after a handbag, watching
people I'd rather see dead? Why do
I bother going on living at all? In the
hope of finding soemthing good, love
or something? I've been around for
about a third of my life, the best third
they tell me, done all those things like
getting drunk, getting laid, getting
stoned; maybe I don't know what's
going to happen next but I don't really
care, I see no prospect of anything
worthwhile happening. Flogging a
dead horse. Sex, that's why we're
alive, we have no choice.
Programmed into us by our genes.
Our parents' genes. Our parents who
never told us anything. They must
have had sex, but I can't picture it,
all that excitement and writhing. I
wonder if they've had oral sex. I
wonder if they can picture me
screwing. Screw my parents, they
don't know me, I haven't seen them
for six months and I don't....
'Hey, earth calling. Can I have my
handbag back now? You alright?'
'Yeah, just thinking.' Smile.

