confusion and blurred visions. The spin mad. A speeding crash ofcolour
screaming inside my head spirts out splays from the light, soaks into the
growths of its own accord. Things distorted surrounding of the rainbow
blacker than the night spill past the range. Gaps appear in the shimmering
image as the ghost and banshees of
sound break through, tearing tear
drops of colourful words that splash
and sparkle in the curses and screams
seagull skull and skeleton dodge
madly across the windswept froth of
the dreamsea, diving and sagging
beneath the weight of a key glistening
and goldened in its bloody claws.
Close by a monster irridescent fish
leaps skywards and flashes and snaps,
the bones cracking in an explosion of
red, descending into a wind of wild
water. Below, the wounded bird
V .v . . . . .
f
Iblackness consumes all-engulfing,
iSomething old and dark is coming, its
| presence weighs heavy and pregnant,
[its breathing resounds above the' dull
solidity of the void. Nothing is
descernable. Then, as I concentrate
on the summoning the black concedes
and a figure evaporates from its
centre. I begin my commandment
| whilst the dream bides its time, white
itratters ana disintegrates. eyes oiiruung siowiy in eternal giuum,
A"scream rips a huge crack in the ; tongue licks, fear congeals in long icy
grey;.blackness widens and before my
dreamscape is overwhelmed I see a
shards on the dark sythe of the night.
A word breaks up on the horned skin
and the spectre slowly acknowledges
and recedes.
I havf rnmmandnl the pifts of
future and sight to know what will be
and why. Now the servant obeys and
he opens up the gateways and rays of
tomorrow stream through, blinding.
In the black night at the void a firey
apocalypse melts people in the sun,
bacteria extend their spores ofvenom
across the land and dead smoke veins,
the veins and arteries severed, and
leaking a view from mask of plastic.
Wheezing life lies heavy yet precious
in the tasks of things not recognisable,
the machines patrol with no mercy
poison and fire.
The dream snaps shut. Words slide
back through the door; seeking a new
route between now and then. A new
door smashes open, pure antiseptic
light streams through and before me
J are the cannibals of another future,
•jfbrainless and unemotional.
In bold metallic, a world of light
i and cold beneath. Through a window
1|| lies a shattered, dry world, spinning
• H slowly and empty as fiery exhausts
ill steam downwards and towards the
* imager, shimmering and fading. The
I dream folds inwards and outwards
• B until Iemerge from the river of time
Wu and hover.
mm Beneath me are the meandering
H decades, filled with interwoven
Hj strands of chance, splitting, falling
forever downwards, small fishes at
• | events occasionally jumping out,
Wk splashing worlds of droplets into
• | different parts of the stream. I catch
l a fish, it starves in my hand leaving
Hj a shrivelled stretched skin framed and
Jjjj decayed eyes. I throw the famine
• | away from the river, it revolves
111 slowly, lost in freefall.
i l l I have found a purpose. I became
S thefisherman,but the task is difficult,
jjj the fish slip through my fingers,
lit Although I fight I realise that I am
being pushed towards a great
fill waterfall.
• j p t
A roaring noise destroys all as
I image after image flows over the edge
H and plumets into unseen depths
below. Ifightthe current but finally
uccumb with a scream. My spirit lets
I B go and falls in a revolving
• I unconscious. I blank out. When I
• j f come to, my mind spins in a whirling
j H of confusion and blurred visions. The
| screaming inside my head...

