OPINION
Chris Martin is the Publications Board Chairman and FELIX
Business Manager. He has been heavily involved in the running
of Imperial College Union for several years whilst persuing a
Computing PhD. He received a Union General Award last year.
What is consensus? Quite simply,
when everyone involved agrees with
a decision, that's consensus. Does it
ever happen? It does—it's the way we
make decisions every day, with our
friends, our colleagues and our
families. We all get together and
decide what we are going to do...if
we're going for a meal, and one of
us doesn't care for Chinese cooking,
we all won't go to a Chinese
restaurant. There's no question of
votes for, votes against and 'the ayes
have it'; no 'procedural motions', no
speeches, and no time limit. We keep
talking until we decide where we all
want to go.
The problem with a vote is that
there are winners and losers. In every
case, one side comes out on top. The
whole way, for example, that motions
are debated encourages this
'adversorial' idea. You do battle with
your opponent, and one of you is the
victor. The loser always feels, in
some sense, beaten; they aren't
encouraged to take part in whatever
decision has been taken. They
sometimes may even work directly
against the decision.
What effect does this behaviour
have? We go along to a committee for
the first time, and see two groups of
people bashing each other with
impassioned speeches and vote upon
vote. There's shouting and yelling—
have you ever been to a UGM?—and
confusion upon confusion of standing
orders and procedural motions.
Wouldn't it be nice to have a single
Then as Now?
In 1934 H G Wells wrote of Imperial College:
It is today a huge fungoid assemblage of buildings and schools
without a visible centre, guiding purpose or directive brain. It
has become a constituent of the still vaster, still more
conspicuously acephalic monster, the University of London.
The thumbsy wisdom of the practical man, with a conception
of life based on immediate needs, unanalysed motives and
headlong assumptions, and with an innate fear of free and
searching thought, is still manifest at a hundred points in the
structure and working of this great aggregation.
The struggle to blend technical equipment with a carefully
cherished illiteracy, an intact oafishness about fundamental
things, has been well sustained. South Kensington will still tell
you proudly, 'We are not literary,' and explain almost anxiously
that the last thing it wants to impart is a liberal education.
The ideal output of the Imperial College remains a swarm of
mechanical, electrical and chemimechanical, electrical and
chemical business smarties, guaranteed to have no capacity for
social leadership, constructive combination or original thought.
The Imperial College was and is still in fact not a college but
a sprawl of laboratories and classrooms. Whatever ideas of
purpose wrestled together in its beginnings are now forgotten.
It has no firm idea of what it is and what it is supposed to
do. That is to say, it has no philosophy. It has no philosophical
organisation, no social idea, no rationised goal, to hold it
together.
I had come up to South Kensington persuaded that I should
learn everything. I found myself in South Kensington lost and
dismayed at the multitudinous inconsecutiveness of everything.
UGM where we stick exactly to the
agenda, with no procedural motions
at all?. There are rules at these
meetings intended to allow the
meeting to proceed in an orderly
fashion. Yet time and again we see
the professional hacks, who know the
rule book back to front, cause the
debate to disappear behind walls of
procedure. They forget, or perhaps it
isn't in their interests to realise, that
the debate should come before the
procedure.
Imagine the advantages if every
decision we took had the support of
everybody in the Union. No one
would be alienated or feel left out, and
they might even be encouraged to join
in themselves.
It's important to realise that this
isn't as difficult as it sounds. Of
course, if you're familiar with the
procedure, it's relatively easy to push
a vote through a committee or two.
But what have you gained? If your
idea is really going to catch hold, you
have to persuade not just the people
that might agree with you anyway,
but also, and perhaps more
importantly, those that don't. Forcing
a vote only alienates these people
further. Persuading them to agree
with you gets them on your side.
If you have an idea, then, the
question shouldn't be "what,
committee can I force this through",
but "how can I best get people in
support of this". There is nothing
worse than turning up to a meeting
with a bunch of papers, talking for
half an hour, and then passing the
whole lot on the vote. What you
should do is talk to the people
involved before you start writing the
first word: they might have some
better ideas than (even!) you. You get
them involved in drafting a proposal;
you consult all those concerned. Once
you reach the stage of presenting your
proposal to a meeting, ideally you
have a consensus. The meeting then
concentrates on how it can best
implement the ideas.
Why am I talking of consensus and
division? Well, in our own Union, the
President is a person with strong
views and a will to get things done:
to him, it appears, the ends justify the
means. If he has to force votes to get
things through, he will. I've locked
swords with him on more than a few
occasions myself. I agree with a lot
of what he has done. I disagree with
just about every way he has gone
about it.
The first time we battled was over
the censorship of the Freshers'
Handbook. I proposed a motion
which clearly was contentious; we
had a debate and, more by luck than
judgement, the motion was refenx
back to the next meeting. Before the
next meeting, we got together, we
discovered on what we agreed and on
what we differed; I then drew up
another motion on which we both
agreed. This was passed at the next
meeting without further ado. That
motion is now Union policy and
everyone is happy with it. A far better
outcome than if the original motion
had been voted for, or against.
This has been the exception rather
than the norm: since, then we have
seen many things, most notably the
new Union job descriptions, pushed
through with only cursory debate and
consultation. Ian (or Sydney, or
whatever) has had a great deal on his
agenda and it was inevitable that
decisions which, with time, could
been unanimous, have instead been
divisory.
Again, when it comes to FELIX,
when the Union disagrees it doesn't
try (as once it would have) to get
everyone together and sort the
problem out. Instead we have division
and another newspaper.
I am sure the President would say
that the votes that have been taken are
necessary, that there was no other
way and whatever division they
caused is unfortunate but
unavoidable. He may be right—it all
depends on where you draw the line
between getting things done and
keeping the Union together. I hope
that he isn't right, and that the 'new
breed of student activist' he claims to
be, isn't the same species as
tomorrow's City whizz kid, raking in
the £££s without regard to the rest of
society.
FELIX Friday 3rd June 1988 3

