Union
Hon
Sex
Residence Insurance
In a desperate last bid to clear the few
outstanding claims, I have sent out
several notes to departments asking
for further information. If you have
a claim outstanding, please look in
your pigeonholes. On many claims,
which seem to be for no discernable
reasons, I have written a letter to the
borders asking them to chase up the
insurers. Unfortunately the insurers
are becoming very pernickity about
claims and delays are starting to arise,
but when they have all the information
needed, it should be just a matter of
time.
One request I would like to make
of claimants is that they leave me a
contact address and telephone number
for the summer vacation. Then if
anything does come through, I can get
to them as soon as possible. I hope
that only the more recent claims will
still be outstanding by the end of my
term of office.
Parking Charges
There is a meeting of the Parking and
Traffic Committee next Tuesday at
which this issue will be discussed. I
should be able to report back after that
meeting.
Spanner
Calling all Guilds Officers, Dep Reps,
Clubs/Societies Chairs/Captains, and
any other hacks. When your exams
have finished and you're looking
forward to going home/on holiday/to
your summer job, please give a
thought to next year's Freshers, and
their first impression of Guilds: the
Spanner Handbook. Articles will be
welcome on any aspects of Guilds;
academic, sporting or social. I will be
available in the Guilds Office most
days from June 9th to answer any
questions or you can leave a note in
the pigeonholes just inside the door.
Adrian Bourne, Spanner Editor '88
Summer Vacation
Employment
Queens Tower Guides
The Queens Tower will be open to the public again
this Summer not only to ensure that the College
stays firmly on the map but hopefully to produce
a small additional income for the College. Visitors
are to be conducted around the tower in groups
of 10 or so by guides who will provide some
background information on the features and
historical associations. A total of 6 guides will be
recruited with 2 of these carrying out gardening
duties except at peak times when the number of
visitors warrants extra control. Guides will keep
the Tower tidy and clean and man the ticket
kiosk/shop. Work will involve making a number of
journeys up and down the iron and stone spiral
stair cases each day. The guides will be divided
into 2 groups each group consisting of 2 guides
and 1 guide/gardener and working alternate days
over a 7 day week. The Tower will be open from
10am to 6pm between July 1 and Sept 30 1988.
Guides will receive pay at the rate of £95 per week
and performance bonuses are to be paid at the end
of the opening period if the income targets are met.
If you would like to take part in the scheme
as a guide or guide/gardener please contact
Mr R L Chandler, Room 531, Sherfield Building
int 3409
Support the libraries—
sport the IC lion
Carry your books, records and shopping in style
in this classy new bag, available from Central
Libraries, College Bookshop and some
Departmental Libraries.
Price: lOp. All profits go towards books and
library services.
VACANCIES
WARDENS
A number ofwardenships will fall vacant from September
1988.
Wardens receive rent-free accommodation in return for
pastoral and disciplinary duties within the residence.
These positions are open to all members of the College
and St Mary's Hospital Medical School. They include the
Wardenships of Selkirk/Tizard Hall and Evelyn Gardens
House, and Wilson House at St Mary's Hospital Medical
School.
For further details and an application form, please contact:
Rob Letham, Senior Personnel Officer
Room 502 Sherfield Building
Extension 3302
Closing date extended to: Friday 17 June
4 Friday 3rd June 1988 FELIX

