• CHEERY CHAS 'a nod's as good
as a wink to a blind horse' Brereton,
next year's ICU Deputy President is
having a bit of trouble with naughty
telephone calls. Apparently, some
Beit Hall wag put a sticker in a
telephone box with Chas' name and
number on it. The message offers
erotic massage.
If you are suffering from the
stresses and strains of academic life,
Chas can be reached on int 3512.
• FELIX SUPREMO Judith
Hackney received a strange telephone
call herself this week. It was from
none other that Internal Services
Officer (Elect) Neil McCluskey.
'I'll take you to court if you print
anything about me and Karen,' he
cried.
T wasn't planning to,' she said.
'Who is Karen anyway?'
'She's my girlfriend,' he replied
bashfully.
We in the FELIX Office are eagerly
awaiting the Writ for Defamation of
Character—but whose character have
we defamed?
• HAPLESS Martyn 'El Prick' Peck
isn't very welcome in the Union
Office these days.
A certain well-known Union
sabbatical was ranting and raving
about the loss of a telephone and
answering machine from Deputy
President Alan Rose's office earlier
this week. My spies tell me that he
was convinced that it had to be either
Mr Rose himself or a FELIX
subversive who had half-inched the
equipment.
He had egg all over his face on
Wednesday when rumour reached
him that the equipment had been taken
right from under his nose by his
'mate', El Prick, and was currently
sitting in his Holbein room gathering
dust.
•Holbein House residents witnessed
a miracle on Tuesday evening when
El Prick—it's that man(?) again!—
cleaned his festering room up.
Agogged Bean's Club loon Sunny
Ghaie (pronounced GAY) soon
realised why Prick had made such a
superb effort when a gorgeous,
pouting female, aged 22, was seen
entering Mr Prick's top floor bijou
residence.
El Prick, aged 18 and a bit, told my
mole later that he didn't want to
become Toy Boy no. 6 and all they
did that night was 'drink tea, eat
biscuits and talk'.
Love & kisses
Chris Jones
Delator would like to
apologise to 'Mr Filofax'
and 'Jacqui' for any
embarrassment that may
have been caused
following the publication
of certain entries from his
filofax in last week's
Blackmail column.
Delator also apologises to
Mr Chas Jackson for any
embarrassment he may
have caused him and
retracts all statements
made about him in the
Blackmail column (FELIX
803 and 804). He
acknowledges them to be
groundless.
Blackmail will no longer
appear in FELIX. It has
been pointed out to both
Delator and the FELIX
Editor that the column is
ever-so-slightly illegal,
despite being jolly good
fun to read and all in aid
of ICU Rag.
Au Re voir
Delator 1988
E L E C T R O . N I C S
S O F T W A R E
E N G I N E E R S
W A N D
THI:MK:KOTI;< :IINI M.OCISTS
MicroSystem Services Limited, Merlin House, Lancaster Road,
High Wycombe, Bucks, HP12 3XY, Telephone (0494) 41661
You are about to finish your course, but you have gained much more from
the last three or four years than a qualification, and you now realise that the
prospect of spending the next five or ten years in a design lab may be good
enough for others, but that you have more to offer
You are intelligent, ambitious and already a little impatient with regard
to your imminent carrer.
If these are your sentiments, you may be one of the Engineers we are
seeking. But you must also be resourceful, a lateral thinker and an
excellent communicator, who has already realised that to achieve career
success commercial skills will be just as important as technical ability.
MicroSystem Services supplies a wide range of tools for Electronics
Engineering, in diverse areas including Computer Aided Engineering,
real-time development and high-speed processing. Our customers form
Britain's Defence Electronics Industry, and to serve their need to use-
ever more advanced technology, we must be the first to possess and
understand that technology. To achieve this goal we employ the very best
Engineers.
To the successful applicants, we offer a starting salary of at least £1 2,000,
a company car (for most positions), bonus and numerous benefits, not
to mention an exciting challenge, a varied life, hard work, and an
environment where "routine" is unknown.
By the end of your lirst year with MicroSystem Services, you should be
earning a substantial salary as a fully trained Marketing Engineer, Sales
Engineer or Applications Engineer. And after that ? Well, most of our
Managers are graduates in their twenties.
If you would like to meet us, please write to me, David Pashley, enclosing
a cv. Sponsorship enquiries from undergraduates are also welcome.
Friday 3rd June 1988 5

