Editorial:
Judging science
Last week the Department of Geology
reconciled itself to its downgrading by
the UGC. The Department will, in
future, get less money and will not be
expected (or funded) to do a broad
range of research. The Department
will fight for more money by asking
its industrial sponsors to make up its
losses, but there is no guarantee that
this will save the day. The supposed
reasons for the UGC's decision are
worth looking at since they raise
important issues about the way
science is done. Other subject areas
are now under review and the
decisions made about them may affect
all the departments at Imperial
College.
Publication counting
The primary rationale for the UGC's
reorganisation seems to be related to
the Department's publication record.
In their review of research excellence,
the UGC asked departments to
nominate a handful of their best
publications in the previous few
years. The poor geologists only came
out of that review with an average
grade, so the UGC was out to get
them even before the countrywide
review of all geology departments.
When the full review was started a
slightly more rational assessment was
made of departmental research
expertise based on overall publication
record. Unfortunately the geologists
still looked fairly average.
Another failure of the Department
(in the eyes of the UGC) was its
apparent lack of cooperation with
other departments. However, what
they actually meant by this was
cooperation with other Science
departments such as Chemistry or
Physics. The geologists have very
good relationships with the other
departments in the Mines building,
but the UGC was, apparently, not
very interested in this.
I will come back to the issue of
inter-departmental cooperation later,
but, first, it is worth looking at the
usefulness of publication records as
an indicator of scientific worth.
The geologists have complained
that their publication record is but a
U N D E R \ T H E
MICROSCOPE
by Steve Black
pale reflection of their true scientific
worth because they do a lot of
(unpublished) consultaacy work for
industry. Indeed, industry is supposed
to think very highly of the department
(though how much money they will
be prepared to contribute is another
issue). It could be argued that if the
department is that useful to industry
then it ought to get its money from
industry and not the UGC.
However, the more important point
is that sheer number of publications
is a terrible guide to scientific merit.
Some assessors prefer to use weight
of publications since this takes fair
account of long papers, but most
official statistics just count numbers.
This drives scientists to cut all their
work down to the minimum
publishable size (unfortunately this is
usually well below the minimum
scientifically useful size). It makes
little sense to publish a long coherent
and well argued piece of work after
several years, when you could publish
it in fragmented dribs and drabs and
get four times as many brownie points
with your paymasters. Also, rapidly
to publish a poorly thought out bit of
work and to later have to publish a
retraction, is twice as good for your
publications rate as taking your time
to get it right in the first place. In
effect the UGC's criteria for
measuring scientific excellence and
encouraging just the reverse: an
explosion of scientific hot air designed
to impress the bosses rather than to
push back the frontiers of science.
If we do have to judge scientists and
departments, then we should look for
more objective measures of their
quality. The Institute For Scientific
Information (ISI for short) publishes
an index of scientific citations. Using
the index you can count how many
people read your publications (since
they will put references to it in their
papers). So if a department only
publishes a few papers each year, but
they are all classics of their field (and
everyone else cites them in their
work), then the department's citation
index will be good despite an
apparently poor publication record.
Also, your citation record cannot be
improved by publishing vast amounts
of garbage, since other scientists will
not refer to dud work no matter how
much of it you produce.
Citation Indexing is not perfect. It
is, for example, biased against very
new areas of science that have not yet
become popular. It will also miss
consultancy work for industry.
Conversely, it gives a high rating to
work in trendy areas whether or not
it has any real significance or
importance. However, despite its
problems citation indexing has been
successful at some things: it is fairly
good at predicting Nobel Prizes, for
example. Of all the 'objective'
methods we have to assess scientific
quality, citation indexing is the best
and the one which causes least
distorting of the scientific enterprise.
Constituent Colleges
and the failure to
cooperate
Whether the geologists would have
done any better under citation
counting is difficult to say, but the
powers that be would clearly have
looked more favourably on them if
their record of cooperation with other
departments was better.
Unfortunately their bad record on this
is not their fault: it is inherent in the
way Imperial College is structured.
The historic division of the College
into three segments my be loved by
the (handful) of CCU activists, but it
perpetuates an illogical separation of
similar departments and it gets in the
way of inter-departmental
cooperation.
Take the departments of Chemistry,
Chemical Engineering and Material
Science: there are good historical
reasons for their present place in the
College structure (RCS, C&G and
RSM respectively), but in any other
university the overlapping areas
would have been rationalised a long
time ago. As it is their cooperation
across the constituent college
boundaries is almost non-existent. So,
there is substantial overlap in terms
of research interests but little actual
cooperation. Good management
would have sorted out this problem
long ago, but British academics are
notoriously conservative. They seem
to resist change until it is forced upon
them and this only makes the whole
process more painful.
The poor geologists suffer from the
same problem: they cooperate well
with the other RSM departments, but
they hardly talk to the scientists or the
engineers. The anachronism of our
tripartite constituent college system
has now cost us a considerable
amount of U G C money. When the
UGC start to look at our other
departments, the same thing may
happen again. Three constituent
colleges may give some people a good
social life, but it's a stupid way to run
a university.
Managing universities
The basic problem with British
universities is that they have never
had to be well managed. The
Government has (until recently) been
generous enough to academia for the
universities to do what they want
without having to be well organised.
Now, with the Thatcher squeeze, they
are having to make hard decisions
about the allocations of resources:
they will soon have to be well
organised to get anything done.
People in industry have to be well
organised: badly run companies go
bankrupt. Universities have not been
forced to live with such a harsh
selective pressure: they usually
survive whether or not they are
inefficient, wasteful or badly
organised.
If the universities are going to
survive Thatcher, they will have to
start learning how to manage. So they
either have to teach academics the art
of organisation or they have to attract
top managers from successful
industries to run their departments.
That wouldn't be such a bad idea
since managers are well equipped to
make objective judgments about the
relative merits of academics' work
(whereas academics can be just a bit
bitchy about the merits of their rivals'
research).
The sooner we get our act together
the less painful it will be in the long
term. We can't buck Thatcher
forever.
Friday 3rd June 1988 FELIX

