^ j ^ ^ ^ i i i i r T - 1
- ' - MlinfiiiiMiiiiiiiBi flat
f ^ P m ^ S ' ^ ^ m i « « m « • i i i i i i i i i •
TENNIS
Second team
UAU competition
UCL—11 sets, IC—7 sets
IC—8 sets, Essex 4 sets
On Saturday May 28 it was almost the
second second team which travelled
to Colchester to play both U C L and
Essex on the same day. Due to the 3
matches planned in the day, each
match was the best of 18 sets over the
9 combinations of each team's 3 pairs.
First we had to play U C L who had
just finished beating Essex by 14 sets
to 4. In the first round, the third
pairing of Hideo Takano and Chris
Tomdgidi did well to force a draw
against the U C L thirds. After a
spirited first set, the second pairing
of Peter Hunt and Dhnusha De
Lanerolle lost to the formidable U C L
second pair, and the first pairing of
Ken Cheung and Roy Harrison were
disappointed with a draw against the
UCL first pair. In the second round
our second pair beat the U C L third
pair as did our first pair in the final
round also in the last round the second
pair did well to force a draw with the
UCL firsts. So, after three and a half
hours of tennis under blistering heat,
we had another whole match to play
which we had to win.
Careful pacing and plenty of liquid
intake ensured that we all felt capable
of lasting the day. Essex had had an
afternoon's rest but were a fairly
weak team and after the second
round, Cheung and Harrison were
heading for a clean sweep with De
Lanerolle and Hunt unbeaten, but it
was 8 o'clock in the evening and
Essex decided to give up.
Consequently U C L and IC went
forward to the last sixteen of the U A U
'Junior' Competition. Many thanks to
those who turned out at very short
notice and despite looming exams, to
spend a day getting totally knackered
and very sun burnt.
Bernard S u n l e y
H o u s e
a n n o u n c e s that
its h o u s e sale
has been
c a n c e l l e d
RACING
by Martyn Peck
Kahyasi became the Aga Khan's third winner of the Derby
on Wednesday when he ran on the final furlong to head
Glacial Storm in the fastest Derby ever run. Kahyasi, an
11-1 shot at the start, waited until the last minute before
challenging strongly and winning by 1 with Doyoun
just holding onto third from the fast finishing favourite
Red Glow. Bookies were delighted with the result, as they
stood to lose £ l m if either Red Glow or Unfuwain had
won. It looked as if Unfuwain would take it at Tattenham
Corner when he was four lengths clear but, with Red Glow
taking the wrong path and coming inside only to be
hampered by the slowing Clifton Chapel, jockey Ray
Cochrane took Kahyasi home and the Aga Khan was left
to scoop the £ 5 0 0 , 0 0 0 prize money. By the way, the Aga
Khan also owns Doyoun, the 2000 Guineas winner, who
took the third place in the same race.
Wednesday also saw the Group Three Diomed Stakes
which produced the most entertaining winner. Waajib
came from last to first in a matter of seconds with a turn
of pace more suited to a Derby winner than a minor
handicap.
Meanwhile at Carlisle, Minizen Lass lost her bid to
achieve six wins in a row when finding a 101b penalty
too much.
We can now look ahead to an Oaks on Saturday which
promises to be a splendid run. This is difficult to judge
because two main contenders, Trusted Partner and
Dancing Goddess, first and second in the Irish 1000
Guineas, will not run unless the going is soft. If it does
rain before the race, I predict a 1,2,3 for Sudden Love,
Diminuendo and Trusted Partner.
This week's tips are on the news pages, and I'll be back
next week with more news.
LETTERS
Cock up 1
Dear Judith,
In last week's 'Blackmail' column, you printed an
allegation about myself which is quite definitely untrue
and almost definitely libellous. Although I am still giving
serious thought as to any further action that I should take,
I am obliged to request that an immediate and unreserved
retraction of this allegation be printed, and that I be offered
a full and sincere apology.
Whilst you consider this, you might also consider
seriously your responsibilities, and the possible
consequences of printing material of this nature.
Yours sincerely,
Chas Jackson.
An apology:-
I am very sorry if anything that has been printed in
FELIX about you has been untrue and for any trouble
this may have caused you.
Cock up 2
Dear Judith,
In last week's FELIX (Issue 804) you indicated that I
reported to a 'Blackmail' source a personal comment about
Mr Charles Jackson. I would refute this comment, and
state that this can only be classed as libellous. I would
also state that I agree totally with Mr Jackson in his request
for a full public apology.
I feel that I must remind you that FELIX is your
responsibility and I suggest that you think twice about the
material that you print and its possible implications.
Yours sincerely,
Alan Hepper.
No sooner written, than done!
Token silly letter
Dear Judith,
What a con Fisher Hall Security is! Only the other day,
a crack squad of Gauntlet spies, cleverly disguised as a
Re-ap and two first years, obtained entry. Using the
unlikely excuse of wanting to borrow one of their recently
purchased barbecues, the door was opened to the Rhino
Club's lair.
With an innocent and unknowing smile the inviting
maidens gave us a tour of some of the more sensitive areas
of the establishment. But the reconnaissance came to a
halt when he encountered a second Subwarden and used
our Trojan Horse of an excuse again.
We wondered if we'd been rumbled as he refused the
request claiming that he didn't have the authority to lend
out the barbecue, and the Warden was out.
A likely story, but tactically he withdrew. Knowing as
ever that there is always another day.
The Gauntlet Club.
FELIX Friday 3rd June 1988 9

