Brixton s Bazaar
Ian Hodge investigates the beautiful south
Deep in the stagnant swamp that is South
London is a market where you can buy
many weird and wonderful things. If your
idea of tasty is sheep's feet or pig's tails
then you're in luck.
Brixton market, sandwiched between
the tube and mainline stations, is the
result of various ethnic and religious
communities that live in close proximity.
Afro-Caribbean, African, South East Asian,
Far East and English cultures all add
flavour to the soup.
Lining both sides of Electric Avenue
(the same one mentioned in the Eddy
Grant song) arecfruit and vegetable,
second-hand shoe and even Bible stalls.
In addition to the normal King Williams
pears and Cox's apples you can buy puna
yams (a large relative of the potato),
okra, gineps, juna plums, green bananas
and plantain (longer than usual bananas.)
The permanent shops that are collected
around a bend in the road are a mixture
of butchers, grocers and clothes shops.
Looking into the butchers is definitely not
for the squeamish or faint-hearted, whole
cows are cut up with rotary saws with
little thought for any passing vegetarians.
Any part of the cow can be bought, from
its tail to its neck and everything in
between.
You can even buy something that I
remember from dissection lessons at
school: pig's trotters. If you fancy trying
them you can get four for less than a
pound, but there's not much meat on
them.
If you continue along Electric Avenue,
cross over Atlantic Road and pass under
the railway bridge you come into Pope's
Road.
Here you will find more fruit and veg
stalls, a knickers stall and one selling
Jamaican sherry. You can even buy
pieces of wood in little plastic bags for a
pound. I have no idea what they are for,
if you buy some let me know.
Continuing on you come to a
crossroads with Brixton Station Road, the
Brixton Recreation Centre is in front and
to the left. Looking left you will see a
stall selling eggs and further along a
couple of stalls selling second-hand
records. They sell every kind of music
but one of them does concentrate on
more obscure artists.
If you turn right you come to the area
of second hand clothes and general junk
stalls. These aren't in full swing until at
least an hour after the main market.
There is a good chance of picking up a
suit for around ten pounds but most of
the clothes would look more at home in a
seventy's drama.
Retracing your steps, half way along
Pope's Road you will see the entrance to
the Granville Arcade on your left. This
contains two of the strangest shops in the
area.
Firstly the wig shop. Here you can get
an afro-wig which the Four Tops would
be proud of, so you too can look like a
fuzz ball on legs. Inside you can get hair
extensions in red, green, yellow and even
brown, clip-on pony-tails and hair dye in
every colour under the sun.
Further along 1st Avenue (the street
and numbered, 1st to 5th) is a shop called
'Food from home'. This sells Indian Asian
food, spices, vegetables and dried fish.
The fish comes both whole and in
powders sold by the quarter.
Other shops in the arcade include a pet
shop, several butchers and fishmongers,
clothes shops and a bakers.
If you come out onto Atlantic Road by
turning down an alley with a baker and a
butcher on opposite sides you will come
out almost opposite Market Row.
This is a very similar to Granville
Arcade, concentrating more on clothes
and general household goods. This was
the only place I could find which sold
pigs tails, three in a bag for about fifty
pence.
Other areas to look at are the railway
arches, where you may hear some gospel
singing, the area immediately behind the
tube station and also some of the side
streets off Electric Avenue.
If you fancy something to eat there are
a few cafes dotted about such as Joe's
Cafe along Brixton Station Road. It is
reasonably priced and reasonably clean.
Getting to Brixton is easy, either take
the Victoria line south or a British Rail
train both to Brixton Station.
Stalls are set up by around half past
nine along Electric Avenue and slighly
later along Brixton Station Road.
The area is definitely worth a look
although I was slighly disappointed with
the lack of atmosphere for which the
area is supposedly famous.
12

