S p o r t s
Football:
IC II, ULU division 1 defending
champions, got a very rude awakening at
the start of the 90/91 campaign, crashing
like an IC house party 6-0 to London
Hospitals.
Why? Lack of fitness and entirely new
team sound better reasons than 'we were
crap!'.
The next game, against Royal Free
Hospital, saw a distinct and welcome
improvement. Despite domination most of
the match, a goal by S Barry, a double
penalty save by S Shilling and some
bizarre refereeing meant the match ended
in a diplomatic 1-1 draw.
And so to victory....IC II, with improved
fitness and teamwork, completely
outclassed (and outscored) the School of
Pharmacy team to earn their first league
win, two points and captains jug! IC
dominated from the start with M Abdo
scoring a classy solo goal in the seventh
minute. A shock equaliser two minutes
later stemmed the IC tide until the
fifteenth minute when M Plummer scored
directly from a corner kick. Ten minutes
later S Barry turned on a new 5p piece to
crack in the third. IC started the second
half in a relaxed mood and allowed SOP
back into the game. A nervous and
testing time ended shortly before full time
as M Abdo blasted his second of the
afternoon to make it 4-2 to IC.
Dribblers
The IC Dribblers, long regarded as the
last hope of decent football at IC, cruised
to a 7-0 victory at Goldsmith's on Sunday
October 14, with a performance to put
the men's teams to shame.
The Holbein trio, Permi, Gert and Eth
bulldozed their way through a rock solid
defence with amazing runs up the length
of the pitch to leave the Goldsmiths side
awestruck with their skill.
Permi put on a fine performance,
scoring four goals after basically coming
back from the dead afjter an horrendous
foul by a Goldsmith's defender. But foul
play and dirty tactics didn't deter the
Dribblers as they romped home to a
storming 7-0 victory. The Holbein trio,
the backbone of the squad, the inspiration
behind the team, were supported
tremendously by the rest of the team,
particularly the other scorers: Debbie, Jo
and Nat.
This fine performance has no doubt
served as a grave warning to the other
league teams—the Dribblers are back
with a vengeance, and with the exciting
prospect of further Holbeiners joining the
squad, the other teams are no doubt
shaking in their boots.
What a splendid performance!
IC IV-2 IC V-0
What better way to start the season than
to have this needle match to whet the
appetite. With both sides still getting to
know each other so early in the season,
the first half began tensely, although the
4ths had the majority of the chances.
Captain Shangha missed an easy chance
early on and then had an even easier
chance cleared off the line. Not put off by
their Captain's apparent mental
disabilities, the 4ths soldiered on against
some skilful play from the opposition and
Keven McCann managed to hit the post.
The deadlock continued for half an
hour after the interval, then the 4ths
brought on their sub, Damon Thomas. He
immediately made a brilliant run into the
open left and then immediately and
brilliantly buggered it up. This sub was
then involved in an ugly incident at the
other end as the 5ths foul-mouthed and
lumbering captain maliculously bundled
him off the ball, but luckily the referee
was close at hand and no serious injury
ensued.
Then, with 10 minutes left, the 4ths
broke down the right and midfielder Rich
Burrows slid the ball in for the deserved
lead. Finally, close to the end and with
the 5ths pressing for an equaliser, the
4ths counter-attacked and the versatile
Lee Davis finished superbly to make sure
of the result.
Debbie Williams
—A Tribute
Debbie Williams, the figurehead of the IC
Dribblers, made what was probably the
toughest decision of her life on Sunday
October 14 when she decided to step
down and hand over captaincy to
Permi—a member of the famous Holbein
school of football. Debbie fought back the
tears as she played what was to be her
last game as Captain.
But what a performance she put on for
her fans with a splendid first half goal
laid on by her successor.
Debbie was the original founder of the
famous Dribblers and, along with super
coach, and inspiration behind the team,
Willie John, has shaped the Dribblers into
world beaters.
She put on a brave face as she led her
team into Southside for the final time and
made it a night to remember as she got
completely pissed, and embarrassed all
and sundry.
Debbie Williams—what a star, we stand
up and applaud you!
Cross
Country
So, was October 13 to see a new dawn in
the blighted recent history of IC X-
country? Eight fit, young Corinthians
thought so, and on a sunny day in early
Fall they travelled to Oxford for the
season's traditional curtain raiser, the
Oxpoly Relays. High on hopes and
buoyed by a sense of history, Frank
Dudbridge blasted round the first lap of
the technically demanding course to
record 8.57 and 4th place for the A team.
The B team was opened by Ian Williams,
who finished just behind Carl Edwards of
the Guardians of the Free Spirit,
consisting of the A runners in a different
order. Destiny was now to rear its head
as Paul Northrop stormed round in 8:12
to put IC A into an awesome 150m lead.
The other two teams ably maintained
position through Duncan O'Dellin the B
and Frank performing a brave but
ultimately naive 2nd individual leg for the
C. Stage three, and the benefits of
training above the snow line were
demonstrated by Dave Bivvy, whose
sturdy thighs kept the first team in the
lead by a comfortable 57 second margin,
while Paul pulled off a 9:11 for the Free
Spirit and Jake maintained the B team's
inexorable progress, the anchor leg fell to
the hapless and woefully undertrained
Carl, whose commendable effort might
have held up against a mere mortal, but
against a bronzed Adonis could only
capitulate. Keven Usher of Oxpoly Old
Boys not only relegated IC to second
place, but also deprived Paul of the day's
fastest time by just one second. Some
comfort was gained, however, when
Oxpoly Old Boys were not given first
prize since the race was only open to
current students. Meanwhile Harry
brought the B team home in a
respectable mid-field position, and the
distinguishing feature of the C team, a
pair of Oakley sunglasses, was displayed
by Dave, finishing ahead of many other
colleges' A teams. So, moral victory and
hopefully a springboard to further team
and individual success in the season
ahead.
Rifle & Pistol
During the summer, the Imperial College
Pistol team won the Howe Cup for the
third consecutive year.
Long range scores
Imperial
Simon Taylor 103/150
James Hurr 103/150
Tony Menzies 79/150
(Tim Griffiths 74/150) Reserve
Oxford
Steve Ivory 77/150
Kate Sprake 48/150
A.N. Other 36/150
13

