C l u b s & S o c i e t i e s
sec
Last year, the Social Clubs Committee
provided over 25 societies for the
students of IC. They covered a wide
spectrum of topics from political to
science fiction tendencies. Unfortunately,
over the summer, three societies have
rapidly diminished and I am now putting
out an appeal for potential committee
members to step forward, and revive
these flagging dominions. Of course,
funding is available as last year's
committees had already put a claim in.
The societies are:
Greater London Club—organises events to
promote London.
Third World First—Concerned with the
developing world.
Women in Science and Technology—20%
of the college's population trying to do
the other 80%'s work.
If you are interested, please get in touch
via ICU.
Spenser Lane (SCC Chair).
Rock Soc
review
Solid State kicked off to a good start with
some weird noises, and soon fell into a
selection that wavered across the
boundaries of rock n roll and rhythm and
blues, with heavy metal solos. Twenty to
twenty-five years ago this would have
seemed exciting. They improved in the
middle with the Sabbathy Heart Attack
followed by softer material which they
played well, but it wasn't what many of
us had come to hear.
E.T.A.'s set was gripping, driving power
metal storm that whipped the
headbangers into a fury and sucked in a
large crowd of oridinary people from
outside. Since their excellent performance
here last year, they have shed almost all
traces of glam and even got thrashy in
the ultra-heavy I'm a Man, which was one
of the few tracks that wasn't played at
breakneck speed. They did lighten up
occasionally to give people a chance to
boogie, so there was something for
everyone. They played both songs from
their single Easy Days Sleazy Nights. The
B side, Crazy was a superb, heavy blaze
of speed and power. At only SI (plus £2
RockSoc membership) this was really
good value for money. This was an even
better performance than last year from
E.T.A. and nobody was disappointed.
Science Fiction
From the director of The Terminator and
Aliens, The Abyss takes you on an
underwater close encounter. More of a
taught suspense thriller than a fish-like ET
with the crew of an experimental
underwater oil rig aiding the military on
rescueing the crew of a crashed nuclear
submarine. It gives a real sense of
claustrophobia and has some disturbing
moments with one real tear jerker of a
scene. The effects are incredible and for
full impact need to be seen on a big
screen. The Abyss will be shown at
7.00pm on Tuesday October 30 in Mech
Eng 220. Membership is £2 which
includes a free film, or 80p entry to
members.
Fencing Waterpolo
' On Mondav Octohpr 22 in thp first oam
As an Olympic Sport, fencing is widely
practised by amateurs across the globe.
These athletes play a game that is both
unique and fascinating. They employ both
mental and physical agility, as well as
tactics and guile.
The history of fencing is long and
chequered, sometimes popular, at one
time illegal. The masters of the sixteenth
and seventeenth century would teach
their deadly techniques to all classes of
person, from common brawlers to
royalty.
Much of fencing's mystique comes from
real or fictional characters. The infamous
Julie de Maupin, who is reputed to have
killed several men in a series of duels at
a ball; simply because they had defended
a woman she had insulted. Cyrano de
Bergerac, who would challenge people to
duels for just looking at his unfortunately
long nose.
The image that springs to mind is
invariably of Errol Flynn, swinging from
chandaliers or fighting eight men at once.
However, the reality of fencing is far
more beautiful than these spectacular,
straightforward images. A great fencer's
skills are subtle: blinding speed,
judgement of timing and distance, the
ability to be utterly unpredictable.
All of these things are difficult to see
and impossible to understand unless you
confront such a person with an epee, foil
or sabre in your hand.
The fencing club at IC has fencers of all
abilities, from beginner to advanced. Our
coach is Ziemeck Wojciechowski, the
National coach for foil and Olympic
coach. We compete in the National
University Athletics Union tournament
which we won last year. No beginning
equipment is needed other than trainers,
tracksuit trousers and enthusiasm.
As fencers, you would be encouraged
to train, fight, win and lose as sports men
and women, to develop your own
technique and to enjoy this exhilarating
sport. If you're interested, why not come
along and become the butcher of nothing
more than a silk button?
On Monday October 22 in the first game
of the year, the IC squad won through a
very physical encounter with Enfield to
win 6-4. It was a fine team performance
with everyone swimming hard, an
encouraging sign with the UAU
championships approaching.
Beginning this evening (Friday 27)
expert coaching will be given by a Great
Britain player, which will raise the level
of our play, and set us up for an exciting
and successful year. In Monday's game
our early term fitness improved to be the
decisive factor, showing that there is still
plenty of room for any potential players
prepared to train hard. So, all who
expressed an interest, now is the time to
come down to training every Monday and
Friday from 6.00pm. There is also a
women's waterpolo squad which was
particularly successful last year, and
which needs new players. Again come
training on Monday or Friday for further
details.
Sailing
On Sunday October 14, the racing section
of the Yacht Club took part in the first of
eight races in the First Class Europe
Winter Series. The crew, Tony
Razmilovic, Thor Askerland, Emmanuel
Osmont, Andre Coppola, Emmanuel
Gringarten, Rick Dickinson, Rory Barrett
and Tim Parons, practised hard on the
Saturday to build up their confidence with
gybes and tacks, and gaining the feel of
the boat.
Race day on Sunday started slowly with
some sleepy heads taking too long to
ready themselves but even though the
boat was one minute late for the start,
and in spite of not having a pen to write
down and plan the course and tactics,
Not Us forged onwards, with sails full and
ropes cracking. Two and a half laps later,
we rounded for the final tack to the finish
alongside arch-rivals Yes and just gently
pulled away, to turn in a respectable
fourth place (to be confirmed).
Next race: This Sunday (21st).

