Swimming
On Friday November 2, at the IC Sports
Centre from 6.30pm you can swim for
free, courtesy of the pool management
(many thanks), and the IC Swimming and
Water Polo Club.
Why? Well it's quite simple, all
swimmers will be raising money for
charity, specifically as part of the Great
British Swim which involves more than
140 swimming clubs around the country
in aid of the National Asthma Campaign.
Do you know anyone with asthma? It's
quite likely that you do, because it is the
most common chronic disease in children,
affecting more than two million people (1
in 10 children) in the UK alone. The
National Asthma Campaign, through the
'Asthma Week' and the sponsored swim
aims to raise over £50,000 for research
into the causes of this disease.
So what's the catch? You know it's for
charity so obviously it's to do with raising
funds. This can be done in one of two
ways (one way you can actually win
prizes!) Either get a sponsorship form and
get your friends to dig deep (see details
below), or if you just come along for a
free swim please be prepared to make a
donation to the fund. So it's not too
painful! In return for a free swim (up to
2!/2 hours long) all we ask for you is to
give a little to the National Asthma
Campaign—an undoubtedly worthy cause.
Should you wish to get hold of
sponsorship forms please contact Chris
Cox, through either the Mech Eng UG, or
ACC ' W pigeonholes. All those who get
sponsored receive a certificate for their
labours and are eligible for a competiton
in which you can win up to £100 in
sports equipment vouchers.
So help us, help yourselves and the
National Asthma Campaign by taking us
up on our offer of a free swim. Come on
down and get wet for charity!
OSC
Good news for overseas students: you will
soon be able to find your country's
newspapers in the Haldane Library. We
have negotiated with the College
Librarian, Mrs Magda Czigany, who
kindly agreed that 25 overseas
newspapers will be displayed. The
National Societies will be responsible for
looking after their newpapers and to
answer any of your questions. This means
that if you have a question, ask your
society, not the library staff.
There are numerous students from
various nationalities in this College who
do not have a National Society (eg French
and German students). We believe that
there are many reasons why they should
start their society, the main two being: to
promote the culture of their country and
to contribute more actively to the
international character of this college, and
to help new students from their country
to adapt to and to benefit from living in
London.
Starting a society is not as difficult or
bureaucratic as it may sound, and
societies' activities are usually subsidised
by the Union. If you feel that starting a
society is a good idea, we will be happy
to provide you with all the information
you need. Please let us know by writing
to the OSC, IC Union (our pigeonhole is
in the Union Office).
As for the existing socieites, we have
not heard yet from the following:
Latin American
Malaysia
Middle East
We remind you that it is essential to
check your pigeonhole regularly and that
you must send a representative to OSC
meetings.
Hang
Gliding
Hang gliding has been established in the
UK for over ten years, and after a rather
'hippy image' it now enjoys a safety
record on a par with skiing. A modern
hang glider consists of about 601bs of
Dacron, aluminium and assorted wires
and has a glide angle similar to a modern
airliner. In skilled hands it is capable of
some pretty amazing performance...the
current British altitude record is 13,200
feet above sea level, and the cross
country distance record is over 200 miles.
The World distance record has recently
been extended to over 300 miles.
Learning to fly a hang glider demands
some perseverance in the early stages,
but as you progress, the sport actually
becomes less strenuous, as first you learn
to soar and then to land back at the top
of the hill (instead of the bottom). We
have arranged for discounts on weekend
training near Brighton and we will be
organising at least two residential weeks
on the Isle of Wight over Christmas and
Easter.
Paragliding is a comparatively new
sport which is fast gaining popularity in
the UK. It originated in France where
bored ski bums learned to foot launch
ram-air parachutes from the top of
mountains. The canopies have developed
to the extent that they would be useless
as a free-fall parachute, but they have
much better performance as a result.
Modern canopies have a glide angle of
about 6:1, which is the same as a hang
glider ten years ago. The main advantage
of paragliding over hang gliding is
weight. A paraglider weighs only about
151bs, so you can carry it in a rucksack
on public transport, your bike, even take
it when you go hill walking—no more
tedious walking down the mountain after
you've admired the view! Even with their
inferior glide performance, paragliders are
still capable of remarkable feats—
paraglider pilots regularly outclimb
sailplanes and hang gliders because they
can turn more tightly in thermals. Cross
country flying is a bit easier than hang
gliding, and is a bit quicker, but the two
sports are highly complementary and if
you start learning one it is quite easy to
transfer to the other.
If you want to learn more (or just see
some spectacular bird's eye views of
China) come along to our introductory
evening on Tuesday October 30, Room
703 Mech Eng at 6pm. We will be
showing some videos and giving a talk
about general aspects of the two sports.
'Hang gliding isn't quite as good as sex,
but it lasts a lot longer.'—Robbie
Whittal-1989 World Champion.
15

