UNION
President
—Paul Shanley
Transport
One of our vans, AHU, is well and truly
knackered. If anyone wants to buy a five
year old white transit, 4 good tyres, only
140,000 miles on the clock, let me
know—I can do you a deal.
Insurance
If any clubs still haven't submitted an
insurance inventory please do so quickly.
All lists should be with approximate
replacement values, inclusive of VAT and
totalled.
Union Office
Can any clubs or MSC's, who haven't
directly done so, please sort through their
pigeonholes in the office and clear any
extraneous crap. Ta.
Welfare
ICU will be running two campaigns this
year: Healthy Lifestyles and Financial
Awareness. Anyone who would like to
help out, please give me a call in the
Union Office.
St Mary's
The first reading of bye-law changes
relating to the merger document is set for
the next UGM. This is at Mary's in the
bar—now on Thursday November 8. The
reading signifies the final stage in
unifying the two Unions.
Harlington Trust
The Trust was set up for the distribution
of income received from excavation of
gravel at Harlington Sports' Ground. The
current fund stands at million with a
projected £3.3 million by the end of the
programme. Considerable disruption
occurred at Harlington resulting in
reduced availability of sports facilities
over the past few years. For this reason,
a few historical ones, and because the
revenue has come from 'The Union's
Sports Ground', the trust money has
always been earmarked for sports clubs'
use.
The Rector has now started making
noises about some of the money being
used towards a new hall of residence. On
a personal level I'm opposed to it. As a
Union representative, I'm bound by what
the majority thinks. What does everyone
think? This will probably come up at the
next Kensington UGM on December 6.
RCSU Elections
Congratulations to Suzanne Ahmet on
becoming the President. I look forward to
working with her on exec this year. Does
anyone want to be External Affairs
Officer?
Entertainments
- B . J .
Hello again people. It's the Ents corner
again but this time we have some actual
news for you. And the great news is that,
of course, the first of the Lounge gigs is
tonight with Miss America and Spirit of
Ecstacy in a co-headline slot.
These gigs are on a smaller scale than
our Freshers' Week events. They are in
the Lounge in the Union Building and we
start off at 9pm with the funky happening
Disco and then after a bit, Spirit of
Ecstacy will be performing live. This is
one of the best of the Manchester-type
bands. Yes, you may say 'so what, they
all sound the same' but how wrong you
would be. Spirit of Ecstacy have a very
original sound—they seem to take snipits
from a wide variety of musical styles—
from the waa-waa guitar to the full blown
power chords with a tight rhythm section
make an excellent base for the powerful
vocal tracks (including a very nice
harmony). They are currently being hotly
pursued by record company executives
from all over the country. T have no
doubt that these boys will be very big'—
Ian Brown (well he may of said it).
Miss America have a different sound
again with a slightly more commercial
sound but still a kicking backbeat and
some very innovative guitar work. More
like a Stone Roses/Soup Dragons Inspirai
Screem band. The only way to judge
them is to turn up and see for yourself.
The price is £2 in advance from the
Union Office or if you are lazy £2.50 on
the door. If you are lucky enough to hold
an Ents card, £1 will get you entry (both
in advance and on the door—if there's
any tickets left). Also the night's
entertainment will feature a late-bar until
lam—enough time to dull your inhibitions
so you can strut your funky stuff until
2am. Can you go wrong?
Next week we have the Muscle Shoal
plus support. Tickets are now available
for this—they can be purchased tonight or
any time from now from the Union
Office. More about this next week.
P.S. I would like to point out that IC
Ents had no connection with the Dr and
the Medics disaster on Saturday October
20. We were called in to run the event—
the organisation was not up to us—don't
let it influence your decision to turn up in
future—all our gigs are organised to a
very high standard so that you can get
the most enjoyment for the least amount
of money. Turn up tonight and see for
yourself.
Hon Sec
Murray Williamson
Events
Unfortunately very few people turned up
to the Doctor and the Medics gig on
Saturday night. I am sorry if people
missed it due to the lack of
publicity/notice/high ticket price. The
original plans were for a different type of
event which at late notice could not be
staged. The bands seemed to be well
received by those that did go and I hope
you enjoyed yourselves.
Tonight and next Friday there are Ents
gigs in the Union Lounge. Next Friday
there is a Bonfire Party out at Silwood.
This is always a good night and even
though it will be dark, you get to see the
Field Station out near Ascot. Tickets are
£3 including band, disco, bonfire, firework
display, free barbecue and late bar.
Return coach will be £2. Tickets from the
Union Office.
Elections
Well no one stood for FELIX Editor.
Another election will be held. In the
meantime discussion is taking place as to
what the election will be for.
We have received nominations for
Welfare Officer and Women's Officer
these being Helen Blacker and Marianne
Purcell respectively.'
There are at present (23.10.90) no
completed papers for the posts of PGAO,
IRC Chair, Haldane Book Buyer,
Handbook Editor, AP Editor, 2 First Year
Reps to Council, 2 Ordinary Members
Academic Affairs Committee, Secretary
Academic Affairs Committee, 2 Ordinary
Members ICCAG. We do need people to
fill these posts so if you are interested
please stand.
Elections will be at the UGM at St
Mary's, now moved to November 8 so as
not to clash with other functions. For the
unfilled posts nominations will be taken
from the floor so please turn up.
Publicity / Posters
Sorry if you got your posters taken down
earlier in the week. It was part of
College's clean up campaign for
Commemoration Day. Clubs and Societies
please note that the fine for publicity
infringing the ICU rules is 25p per poster
(per day).
Commemoration Ball
This ball, for the 1990 Graduates, was
held last night. I hope those College
members that went enjoyed themselves
as much as we did.
Thanks
To BJ, Emma, Dom and all the Ents
crew, Mylan, Richard, Graham, Nick and
the ICDS Technies, Shan & Ben for recent
help, in particular on Saturday and last
night's functions. Also thanks to Tim and
Mark for letting my team win the C&G
MC Treasure Hunt.
20

