Do You Know This Man?
Cut Up
Bolt cutters were used to break through a
padlock that secured a locker last
Wednesday afternoon. The locker, on
Level 1 in the Mechanical Engineering
Department, contained a cheque book,
cheque card, watch and a diary.
Earlier that afternoon a Chinese student
had borrowed a set of bolt cutters from
the stores in the basement of the
building. The cutters were issued from
the stores without a request for
identification and without a signature
being obtained. Realising that bolt cutters,
or similar equipment, must have been the
method of entry, Neil Steer, the owner of
the stolen items, tried to borrow some
and was able to get them out without
getting questioned.
Security tried matching the cut marks
on the padlock with those of the cutters
found in the possesion of cycle thieves
last week, but this proved negative. Terry
Briley, College Security Officer, said that
they are very interested in talking to the
student who borrowed the bolt cutters on
Wednesday afternoon.
Video cameras caught the man pictured
above after he attempted to cash a stolen
cheque in the South Kensington branch of
Thomas Cook.
The chequebook and card had been
stolen earlier that morning, on the 9th
October, from Dr. Nicholson of the
Chemistry Department. Dr. Nicholson told
FELIX that he had seen the photographs
but did not recognise the man involved.
He said that the chequebook had been
taken from his briefcase and that other
items such as credit cards, driving licence
and a billfold containing some money had
been taken from his jacket. These were
not discovered to be missing until six that
evening.
Dr. Nicholson warned that there had
been a number of other thefts from the
upper floors of Chemistry and Physics
and added that his office was 'out of the
way' on the eighth floor. He said that
anybody seen wandering about was
usually assumed to be lost and would be
stopped. At the time of the theft, Dr.
Nicholson was teaching and the two
research students normally resident in his
office had left for the library.
ID Checks Justified Rag Raid
The recent identity checks in Southside
bar have been justified by Mr Roger
Pownall, Bars Manager, as they 'protect
students'.
He said that 'there are a lot of people
who should not be in the bar and we
must comply with the licensing laws'. He
stressed that Southside bar was not a
student bar but one for all people with a
connection with the college.
He added that the most of the trouble
makers in the bar were people outside
the college, and that no-one was asked to
leave last week but this might become a
possibility. He said that members of the
college are requested to carry
identification at all times - students should
carry their Union cards.
Mr Pownall said that they might
consider issueing identity cards or badges
to Bar staff so that the challenged
customers know why they are being
asked to provide identity.
RCS Election
Suzanne Ahmet has been elected as the
president of the Royal College of Science
Union (RCSU). She won by two votes, the
results being 106 votes for her, 104 for
James Bryant, 13 abstentions and 20
spoilt papers.
There had been some controversy
surrounding her eligibility to stand for the
position since she had not registered on a
course when the elections took place.
This was due to a delay in college
administration which was later deemed
not to affect the election.
Although Suzanne will be studying
Materials she has studied Physics for two
years and is thus a full member of RCSU.
Chas Randies, last year's VP for the
RCSU, said 'It's nice to have a president'.
When she received the president's
gown, Suzanne said 'I..' and fainted.
The Rag raid to Guildford on Wednesday
raised a total of £185.03. The largest
amount, £57, was raised by Pete Bowen.
This Saturday there will be a collection in
Covent Garden for the World Wildlife
Fund.
Imperial College
Friends of Palestine Society
would like to invite you to
a lecture entitled:
THE U.N. AND THE
PALESTINIAN PROBLEM'
by Dr Afif Safieh
(the new PLO representative in London)
Thursday November 1
12.45pm
Civil Eng. LT201
All studen ts and members of staff
welcome. BRING YOUR UNION CARDS.
Students without Union Cards will not
be admitted

