U n i o n G i g S t a g e d i v e s
Last Saturday's disco lost the Union an
estimated £5500 due to a poor turnout. It
was originally intended that the gig was
to be held in the Careers Fair marquee
rather than the Concert hall and was
intended to cover the loss expected of
the Fair. Murray Williamson, Union Hon
Sec, said 'In the end we wouldn't have
had to stage the event anyway as the
Careers Fair made a profit'. He added
that the event seemed 'quite a wacky
idea'.
Murray Williamson said that the event
had been proposed by David Ensell, the
Careers Fair Manager, and Rob Northey,
Refectories manager, at the end of
August. He said that David had assured
him that the marquee was available for
two weeks and added that Mr Northey
had agreed to the project going ahead.
Mr Northey had requested an early
application for a bar extension but this
was not produced by Murray until two
weeks before the event was due. He was
then informed by refectories that the
Main Dining Hall had already been
booked for another event and so was not
available to house a bar.
At this point the PA system had been
ordered as well as the bands, the stage
and the lighting. Murray said that to
cancel the event would have cost £4000
but 'to go ahead would piss off Northey'.
A decision on the event was postponed
until Wednesday lunchtime, a week and a
half before the gig. This was, in Murray's
words 'a day and a half wasted'.
In the meantime the support band Nine
Below Zero had gone down badly at
Middlesex Polytechnic and had walked off
stage early. They are currently being
sued by Mandy Hurford, their General
Manager. She will become Imperial
College Union Manager on the 6th
November.
Although the contracts with both bands
were verbal, Dr. And the Medics had sent
a contract to be signed whereas Nine
Below Zero had not. The support band
therefore have no obligation to the Union
who cannot sue.
Publicity for the gig was produced only
five days before the event reading 'plus
support band'. A new support band, the
Phantom Chords, had been found by this
time and so stickers advertising the new
band had to be affixed. When this was
attempted on the Wednesday before the
gig, it was found by Murray that not
many posters had been put up around
college although Ents had put up posters
in other London colleges. The new
stickers advertised a drop in price from
£7 to £5. This was still calculated to
cover costs.
Murray Williamson said that flyers were
handed out at the ULU all nighter and
inside college throughout the rest of the
week. Before the event, however, only
150 tickets had been sold and so the
price was reduced to £2 on the door. This
was not advertised widely.
At the event, ticket inspection was
hampered by the fact that access to the
main toilets was required due to the
Union Bar's toilets being broken. Tickets
had to be collected on the staircase which
meant that many of the 350 people who
finally attended got in free.
Murray Williamson said that the money
lost will come from Union funds rather
than from Ents. He added that the exact
source of the money will be discussed at
the next Union Finance Committee (UFC).
He also said that to stage the event in
the marquee would have required extra
emergency lighting and fire doors as the
marquee was 'effectively pretty unsafe'.
He stressed that since Mr Northey had
given him permission to stage the event
he had assumed that higher management
had been informed. He said 'It's not our
fault it didn't go all the way to the top'
and 'It wasn't our communications that
broke down'.
Security
Worries
Mr Geoff Reeves, Chief security officer
at IC, warned of a walk- in thief who has
been seen in the Chemistry building. He
is described as having a black leather
jacket with blue jeans and about 5' 8"
tall. He had grey hair and was probably
about 40 years old.
The cycle D locks on sale from the
Security office now cost £20.50. Mr
Reeves said that he could no longer
manage to keep the price down, though
it was still at cost price. He said that
cheaper makes can often be beaten. The
type they sell is safer and of an American
make, he said.
He added that a man was to be
charged with possession of lock breaking
equipment in connection with the recent
bike thefts. More such thefts have been
reported this week.
Grants
This month's Research Grant Stakes
trophy goes to Professor D J Ewins of
Mechanical Engineering who has
managed to extract a staggering £1 505
000 over five years from Rolls-Royce pic
for the Vibration Technology Centre.
The 'Free market economy Booby
Prize' is presented this month to the
Science and Engineering Research Council
(SERC) who have given £500 over five
months to Dr D J N Limbeer of Electrical
Engineering for the enigmatically titled
'Visiting Fellowship: Professor U Shaked.'
Loose Ends
'Loose Ends on the Theory of
Everything' will be tied up by Dr N
Linden of Cambridge University on
October 31st. The lecture will be held in
Physics lecture theatre 1 at 1.15 pm.
Giveaway
If you're dithering about of getting a
railcard, buy it before the 10th of
November. British Rail are offering an
extra three months on railcards bought
before this date, which means reductions
of up to one third off train fairs for fifteen
months. The cards cost £16 and are
available for students aged between
sixteen and twenty three, leaflets
available at main BR stations and Rail
Appointed Travel Agents.
Stolen
The plaque on the entrance to the
Management school has been stolen,
probably a few weeks ago, according to
Mrs E. Percival, the school Administrator.
The plaque was worth 'several
hundreds of pounds' she said, and a
replacement would be funded out of the
school's current budget. The present
replacement is printed on paper. Mrs
Percival said the next plaque should be in
place within a month, and should be of a
different design from the original.

