etsy's Wedding
This film can best be described as a good
attempt at staged havoc, w i t h everything
that can go w r o n g doing so and finally
ending up with everybody living happily
ever after. The ending's the same, the
rest of the film is a bit of disappointment.
Written by, and staring, A l a n Alda
(Hawkeye from M*A*S*H) who plays
Betsy's father Eddie Hopper, things start
with a lot of promise. The acting is fine
with Stevie Dee (Anthony LaPaglia)
playing the part of a silk tongued
gangster particularly well. Unfortunately
the humour is a little contrived although
when the afformentioned Stevie Dee tries,
with the utmost respect, to ask Eddie's
older daughter out for dinner things do
pick up greatly. She is, after all, a police
officer!
Another problem is that the main
theme is lost amongst the myriad of sub-
plots. This means it is very hard to get
involved with the problems that the
young couple encounter, the conflicting
wishes of both sets of parents over
have.
Not a bad film, certainly reasonably
more life to create the result I think they
were after.
Ian Hodge.
everything, d o w n to what sort of nut to good entertainment but it needed a little
A Shock to the System
Everyone wants to kill someone
sometime, don't they? N o w , imagine you
have an annoying, nagging wife. Imagine
an obnoxious yuppie has just been
promoted over your head, and is
stripping you of your power. Imagine
you've just pushed a tramp under a
subway train, and got away with it...
This is the position Graham Marshall
(Michael Caine, soon to be seen with
Roger Moore in Bullseye - not a lot of
people k n o w that) finds himself in not
long after receiving an electric shock (to
the system?). It occurs to h i m that a
couple of convenient accidents might
make his life a lot simpler. Soon he takes
upon himself the role of wizard, fixing all
that lies in his way. He even takes on a
young, attractive and female (ie sexy,
available and not to bothered about grey
hair and wrinkles) apprentice who slowly
begins to suspect that all is not as it
seems.
A sinister tale of office and (basic)
sexual politics. A classy thriller. Michael
Caine looking more evil than I have ever
seen him before. The plot is not complex,
but it has a certain relentlessness to it
that keeps one enthralled. T h e excellent
playing by the whole cast helps lift it
from the dangerous abyss of T V
moviedom.
A s the end draws nigh, the cop draws
near and the girlfriend draws a lighter
out of an envelope, the audience are on
the edge of their proverbial seats. The
ending is good, satisfactory, chilling and
unrevealed here. The film is good,
exciting, chilling and recommended here.
A d a m T.
Mo' Better Blues
M o Better Blues is Spike Lee's fourth
feature film and like his other 'Joints' the
basis remains in the portrayal of Afro-
A m e r i c a n culture in modern American
society. Whereas in his previous and most
widely acclaimed film Do The Right
Thing Lee focused on racial tensions, in
Brooklyn M o Better Blues returns to the
scenario of relationships as in his first film
She's Gotta Have It.
The thematic principles are the same,
but the backdrop to this film is neither
racialism, rivalry or sexual indecision but
jazz. This is not the jazz of Eastwood's
Bird or Round Midnight. This is not the
sleepy 50s nightclubs where the talent of
the players concerned (Charlie Parker and
Bud Powell respectively) is shrouded in a
haze of drugs and alcohol, in which the
genius of the musicians plays second
saxophone to the sadness and ultimate
tragedy of their personal lives. No this is
a hip, stylised jazz where the only thing
shrouding the players' virtuosity is the cut
of their suits.
The film is centred around Bleak
Gilliam (played superbly by Denzel
Washington), a self-centred, intense jazz
trumpet player. A rising star whose
egotism and misplaced confidence in the
control and dominance of people in his
life (namely his band, his lovers and
manager) contrive to be his downfall and
saviour.
The musical score is excellent,
composed by Lee's father Bill, himself an
accomplished jazz bassist (who has a
cameo role as Indigo's father) and played
by the Branford Marsalis Quartet, friends
of Lee whose brother W y n t o n Marsalis is
a talented trumpet player.
Mo Better Blues has all the hallmarks of
a Lee film, the fast witty dialogue,
characters centre screen addressing the
camera directly, the unusual camera
angles, and because this time Lee had
money to play with (he is a sound
investment, assured to rake large returns
at the box office) there is a lush feel and
visual quality about the film afforded by
fine set designs and subtle lighting.
W i t h Mo Better Blues Spike Lee extends
his reputation as being one of the most
important contemporary film makers and
is indeed a love supreme. (Try to avoid
seeing Mo Better Blues at a Cannon
cinema as they don't give a student
discount even at the first showing.)
Jimmy Rimmer.
6

