The Little
Mermaid
This film is nicer than Felicity Kendal
with a plate chock full of Bakewell tarts.
It tells a tale of piscine love with a few
songs thrown in for good measure. Ariel,
the little mermaid, is fascinated by
humanity and has amassed a larger
collection of consumer durables than
Argos (the shop, not the ship). She longs
to see humans, even though this is not
the done thing, and of course she decides
to investigate a passing Sealink. Naturally
she goes and falls in love with a tall,
handsome, heterosexual, clean living,
upright pillar of society, w h o by true
Disney standards is also a prince. Well,
she is n o w obsessed with this forbidden
passion (sounds like 9V2 Weeks) to the
extent that she goes and does A Foolish
Thing.
At this point there enters a catalyst in
the ointment, in the betentacled form of
Ursula (The Sea Witch! boo hiss) w h o
offers Ariel a part-exchange deal: O n e
spanking new pair of Reebok leggies
(female thankfully) for a d o w n payment
of a Dulcet Singing Voice in good repair.
This is a Fatal Error but we're not going
to tell y o u w h y (HA! H A ! Go watch the
film!) and proves to be Ariel's undoing.
Against the best advice of her
companions, Flounder (a blue and yellow
beachball fish) a n d Sebastian (a Carib
crab with a y e n for composition) she goes
for the prize and hits the wooden spoon
with such force that she is incapable of
saying anything for most of the rest of
the film.
This being a true Disney mermaid film,
the tragic ending of the original Hans
Christian Andersen story (dying, turning
to stone/cloud, generally not getting the
guy anyway) is neatly diverted to good
family viewing. (Can any readers
remember the actual ending to The Little
Mermaid Mkl? Answers o n a postcard to
F E L I X please).
The animation is as usual beyond
compare; the story is more pleasant than
Felicity Kendal and Richard Briers put
together and also reduces the effective
age of the viewer by a factor of three. Be
prepared to hiss, boo and chear at
appropriate moments.
This is a good film. Go and see it now.
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine.
G o o d F e l l a s REVIEWS
The Mafia is an element of Italian-
American culture that has an undeniable
fascination to the filmakers of Hollywood.
Surprising, though, to see a director of
the calibre of Martin Scorsese taking o n
the subject. Scorsese, responsible for
movies like Raging Bull, Colour of Money,
Taxi Driver and the, shall w e say,
controversial Last Temptation Of Christ,
has chosen to adapt a book written from
a series of interviews with ex-mobster
Henry Hill, n o w on the Federal Witness
Program.
The result is a fascinating, un-glamorous
portrait of h o w the Mafia (or goodfellas
or wiseguys, as they call themselves)
really work. W e are lead through the life
of Henry from his early days skipping
school to run errands for Paul Cicerone,
to his eventual fall at the hands of
Narcotic agents. In between w e have the
laughs and murders, wives and
mistresses, heists and dinners that make
up his life.
The insights w e get are fascinating. T h e
relationships between the pure Italians
and the wiseguys of m i x e d blood are
examined, as are the wiseguys'
relationships with the local community
and the police.
The cast is good, and big. Robert De
Niro is, as ever, superb in the role James
Conway one of the wiseguys w h o rises to
power with Hill. His portrayal of the
ruthless m a n w h o slowly descends into
paranoia is masterly. Also good is
Lorraine Bracco as Karen Hill, the girl
who is at once turned on and appalled by
her husband's activities. T h e marriage
sequence has to be one of the most
bizarre in the movie.
To call this a thriller would be wrong,
but it has elements of that genre. T o call
it a comedy would also be wrong. It is a
film that totally defies any sort of
categorising except one - good. B y far the
best movie o n general release at the
moment, this really is a worth a chunk of
your grant.
Pendragon.
Judge Dredd Megazine
Within six days of its release this new
graphic magazine had sold 40,000 copies.
This is not too surprising because Judge
Dredd is Britain's most popular comic
character appearing weekly in 2000AD
and daily in the Star newspaper.
Set in a future where overpopulation
calls for overcrowded cities of tower
blocks, with mass unemployment and few
releases for all the pent up tensions.
Many citizens turn to crime which calls
for a police system which can dispense
instant justice. Trained from the age of
five, judges are empowered to apprehend,
try and sentence on the spot. Dredd is
the best judge (even though he's getting
old) and stories tend to follow his
adventures through the weird and
wonderful city of 800 million people (give
or take 200 million for war, disease,
genocide, etc).
The stories in the Megazine (Mega
because the city is Mega City 1) go for a
far wider view than just Dredd himself.
Currently only one story follows his
exploits while the others follow related
characters. Chapper is back, after a
number of stories in 2000AD, in a
dubious story about corporate revenge,
Judge Death is also back giving an insight
into his past and Kenny W h o ? is back
although I have no idea w h y . Possibly the
most interesting story is A m e r i c a which
tells of a Mega City 1 citizen w h o
questions the judges right to hold
complete control without democracy.
A n y o n e w h o has read an issue m a y note
that I missed Mega City Newspaper. This
is quite intentional. Overall the Megazine
is pretty good but there is a lot of r o o m
for improvement (like h o w about more
Dredd??).
The Amazing Machine.

