'Wacky Doctor' Clive talks to FELIX about bananas, snail farming
Doctor and the Medics
W h y do you call yourself a doctor?
I applied for medical college w h e n I left
school^ to all five of the big London ones,
and I got turned down from them all.
W h e n I was about two months old, I was
in my mother's arms and a gypsy w o m a n
called at the door selling her wares. She
said to my m u m that when he grows up
he's going to be a doctor. I thought a
gypsy w o m a n can't be wrong, so I tried
to be a doctor and I failed to get into
medical school, so instead I ended up
with a crap band called Doctor And The
Medics.
Actually, it's our first gig with the new
line-up. This is the dawning of a new age.
A new era in the annuls of bad taste
begins today. W e have this single coming
out on M o n d a y which is a version of a
song that not many people have heard of.
It's an obscure sixties song called Hi Ho
Silver Lining. So we're just gearing
ourselves up to hopefully get ourselves
working properly again.
So it's going to be ANOTHER cover
version single!
Yeah, it is. Well spotted sir! There's
many reasons for doing that, they're all
stupid reasons, this week. But to cut all
the bullshit, basically, we wanted to get a
record deal. We're hoping to have a
second bite at the apple as the first bite
was very nice. It was our eigth birthday
in April this year. Its been a career of ups
and downs really, and I suppose we've
had downs for the last three years.
We've all had jobs. I make windows,
I'm a joiner. The customers haven't got a
clue who I am. In the workshop, I'm the
scruffy cunt in the corner who snarls at
all the customers, and that's it. I've got
wives and babies and things like that to
support. Steve, you'll notice, his guitar
technique is a hell of a lot better 'cos he's
had a job screwing the caps on bottles in
a bottling factory. That action, over and
over again has given him this technique.
Apparantly, Eric Clapton saw Steve play
recently and was so impressed by this
technique that he's now hoping to get a
job in the bottling factory next week so
he can get this little twist. You'll notice
Steve does it tonight, only 'cos he's pissed
and on the w r o n g strings.
How can we follow that?
Yes, and m y mother was a piece of
carpet, she's here in my pocket. So
basically, that's w h y we've got this single
coming out. I was even in M r . Abusing
this week. They said I should be flown
out to Iraq with a note saying 'Saddam
Hussein do something or other' and that I
should be used as his moustache for his
snot or something.
How do you get into the Talk Talk
pages of Melody Maker?
In our case, just by being a right bunch
of pricks for eight years. That seems to
work.
What are your views on the Gulf
situation?
Well, I think Tony Jacklin was a great
player and since he's left, the whole golf
situation is not as good as it used to be.
A n d they're a great car... Nuke the
fuckers!
People ask me for advice on anything.
Come on, who's qualified? Failed
musician, failed snail farmer, failed joiner,
you know. I've not succeeded at anything
in my fucking life. Snail farming failed
miserably and I'm blaming Chernobyl. I
put in a claim to European Agriculture.
There's a compensation thing for people
who had losses from Chernobyl. There's a
few people in Wales w h o lost a lot of
snails as a result of it and I put in this
claim, yeah? The thing is, they're putting
in for the loss of the snails. I'm claiming
that I was writting an album about snails
at the time, and that since they've died,
m y inspiration has gone. The album was
going to be a top seller so I'm sueing
them for £ 5 0 m which is what the album
would have reached. That's going through
at the moment. I hope to hear about it.
W h o writes all the stuff?
Well, Jeff Beck wrote the last one,
Norman Greenbaum wrote the one before
that, and Bjorn and Benny from Abba the
one before that. W e did a version of
Waterloo years ago. W e dressed up as
the Abba girls on video with long blond
wigs on. W e did that with R o y Wood.
The girls sang it. I just conducted the
orchestra and played the saxaphone. It
was the coolest video we ever did. No, I
don't particularly want to play it tonight,
in fact I think w e played it live about
twice.
The rest of the stuff now, Steve and I
write it all. Steve and I always used to
write it but w e used to give Richard our
publishing royalties for sitting and doing
nothing, but Richard's left now. The
reason Richard, our bass player, left was
that he didn't want to be seen in a band
that played Hi Ho Silver Lining. It was
too much for his credibility.
Who do you listen to?
Jeff Beck mainly now. O n the phone.
'You bastards, how dare y o u ' he said. I
listen to anything that's good. I'll listen to
Black Sabbath one day if I want to, I'll
listen to Black Sabbath the next day and
then some days I listen to Black Sabbath.
Anything really, from Pink Floyd through
to Wham, except I havn't listened to any
Wham. That was a lie. So, Pink Floyd
and Black Sabbath really.
What I think is great in music is The
Stones still being around. After all thii
and old men's willies. The Damned Phantom Chords were
there too.
The Phantom Chords
time, The Stones are still here. O l d Fred
and Barny. Sorry, that was very uncalled
for. Yeah.
How about the Manchester scene?
The Stone Roses supported us in 1985
at the Croydon Greyhound and they were
shit then, and they're shit now. Let's be
honest, Echo and the Bunnymen started
all that thing rolling years ago and I still
think they do that kind of thing a hell of
a lot better.
Do you go to gigs a lot or do you
tend to stay away?
No, I don't tend to really these days. I
go to gigs w h e n there's bands playing
that I like to see but V a l Doonican hasn't
toured for years now. I enjoy gigs a lot
more these days 'cos I have to pay to go
in. I saw Pink Floyd at W e m b l e y three
years ago. That was really good.
Where did you get the violets?
The opticians. If you have a look
through them, you'll see what I'm talking
about. I'm blind. It's better than taking
acid, isn't it? They're proper glasses.
Everyone thinks I'm a posey bastard.
With a face like mine, you've got to hide
some of it. Look, there's a man eating a
banana!
I once had a book by A l , the magician,
A l i Bongo. I read it when I was sixteen
and it said you should do something
different every day, even if its just eating
a banana. It didn't make sense to me at
the time, but I started eating bananas. It
said that bananas were the best food
because they were slimming, they were
good for you, they came in convenient
packaging. T h e y were like some mystical
food and you should eat one a day, so I
started eating a banana a day for like two
days. Nothing happened.
We're working on abject failure tonight.
No, no-one goes out on Saturday night,
do they? They're showing a replay of
Beardsley's goal against Poland tonight, a
lot of people staying in for that. I loved
the W o r l d Cup.
Who do you support?
At the moment 1 support two children
and a wife, but I was born in Liverpool
and the whole family is Liverpudlian m a d
so no I don't. I used to go and watch ice
hockey, but only because I was hot. I
used to lick the ice.
What wallpaper did you have as a
child?
Like every other Liverpudlian bastard
we just used to put brown paper on the
wall. It was only brown because it was
toilet paper that had been used. I don't
say anything that I regret really, apart
from 'spip snork'. That's the only thing
I've ever said that I regret saying, 'cos its
fucking stupid. I'm an intelligent man. I
have letters after m y name, C.U.N.T.
Most of m y childhood was spent in the
cubs and scouts. I used to like the feel of
old men's willies up my bottom. A r e we
a bitter band? No, Steve drinks lager.
H o w do you cook asparagus? Boil it.
Rare & SJH.
How did The Phantom Chords get
together?
W e knew what to do. Dave decided to
do this thing o n his o w n and he asked
myself and Brin to go off and do it with
him, which meant the end of The
Damned.
So it's fluid rock and roll basically
now?
No, its not. W e do a few songs that you
could class as rockabilly. There again we
do a thing from the beatnik era. Its a
musical collage. Played live it should be a
little bit exciting as opposed to just hum-
drum copies of wierd sounds on the
album.
So you think your material is
boring?
Well, Johnny Remember Me wasn't our
choice, it was bowing to record company
pressure. Its always very difficult to
maintain your integrity w h e n you've
signed to the people paying your wages.
W e did Johnny Remember Me as The
Damned. I don't think there is a single on
the album. Y o u should put on something
that represents you. The v e r y reason that
The Phantom Chords are here now and
The Damned are not is that it's us. It was
the natural progression. Its a little bit of
fresh air to go on and play something
that people havn't heard before. Its a
challenge. We're trying to get away from
The Damned. Before Christmas I reckon
we'll be in T h e Marquee. Obviously we
would like to go back to bigger gigs, but
its back to the basics. I don't work, this is
all I do, with a spot of producing, a spot
of session w o r k and write some songs.
The Damned carried on for a while, did a
few shows, just to get some money. The
first Phantom Chords demos we did were
nearly two years ago. It took that long to
get it all together. Its the same old story
as a new band. Things were working
against us, like the reputation we had.
W h e n you play say Hammersmith Odeon,
you have to do a slick show as people
pay so much they expect a slick show.
W h e n you just play a club its just put
your amp on some beer crates. W e
managed to do that on big and small
venues. The stuff that I wrote for The
Damned was pretty fickel, but that was
due to m y immaturity. Its got to be more
than the sky is blue, the grass is green
and m u d is b r o w n .
Dan & Rare.

