FEATURE
A tour round Eastern Turkey.
In Search of No
This year, western holidaymakers will
once again cram themselves onto the
'developed' beach resorts of Turkey's
Aegean and Mediterranean coasts,
oblivious to the rest of the nation. The
long narrow country would stretch from
the Baltic Sea to Barcelona, or from
Maidenhead to Morocco. Despite this,
most of the tourists who visited in 1989
were happily unaware that life existed
outside Bodrum. Content with the hotel
pool and bar, many do not know how
easy, cheap and rewarding Turkish travel
is.
Turkey, the gateway to Asia, has an
enviable public transport system. The vast
bustling bus depots in each town act as a
central nervous system to the extensive
coach service. Timetables depend on
demand, with buses constantly leaving
'Now' to anywhere. With up to twenty
coach companies touting for business at
the depots, the cheapest fares can be
bartered within minutes. Costs of bus
travel averages out at about 30p per 100
miles. Hotel and pension prices away
from the coast can be less than £2 per
night including breakfast. This makes a
few weeks of travel through Turkey
substantially cheaper than a single resort
package beach holiday.
We flew into Istanbul on a cheap flight
in late August. Planning to see this
ancient city on our return three weeks
later, we immediately took an eight hour
bus journey east to Ankara, the capital.
This wasn't as horrific as it sounds. The
frequent stops and gallons of free tea
served in tall glasses by small boys with
crew cuts eased the monotony. Attracted
by the call from Cappadocia, we left
Ankara early the next day for the central
Anatolina plains. The region is famous for
its soft volcanic rocks which have been
extensively hollowed out for homes and
stables. Some of these are still lived in
today. In Goreme it is possible to stay in
the cave hotels and pensions. A dusk
stroll up to the cave dwellings above the
small town of Urgup tempts out the cave
people who offer impromptu candle-lit
guided tours round the dingy passages of
their ancestors and invite you to share
fruit in their humble homes.
From the biblical landscapes of central
Turkey our pilgrimage took us east
through earthquake-plagued Erzurum and
on to Dogubayazit. At only 35 km from
the Iranian frontier this was the most
easterly point of our travels. It is a town
of butchers and the streets reek of raw
meat. Skinned carcases swathed in clouds
of flies hang outside the shop windows.
Dogubeyazit is dominated by the
legendary 5,165m Mt. Ararat. The snowy
peak, supposedly the resting place of
Noah's Ark breached the horizon an hour
before the town was reached. It can be
climbed and there seems to be an
inexhaustable supply of guides and
sherpas who are prepared to lead you
up—'If you have permission'. This comes
in written form from the authorities in
Ankara and can take several months to
obtain. There is nothing technically
difficult about the climb. The danger
comes from the severe weather, ferocious
sheep dogs, smugglers and outlaws. These
problems can be overcome by joining a
group tour. Hann Overland adventure
travel offer an 11 day Mount Ararat Trek
from the UK for £580.
The numbers of people climbing the
mountain are on the increase. In 1982
James Irwin the American astronaut
reached the summit. His Kurdish guide
now runs a taxi company near the bus
station in Dogubeyazit. He told me that
he has climbed Ararat six times since
then but has never found any remains of
the Ark. Over the years several people
have reported sighting a 'boat shape', but
none have bought back any conclusive
evidence.
For a few pounds, a small Dogubeyazit
tour company offers the 'Ark Tour'. The
proprietor studied English in Sheffield. His
itinerary promises visits to Isak Pasa
Palace, a Kurdish village, Noah's Ark
remains, the Iranian border, a meteorite
crater and an ice cave at the base of Mt.
Ararat.
The next morning all the budding
'Raiders of the Lost Ark' assembled
outside the travel office to board the
minibus. The battered bus which looked
h's Ark FEATURE
as if Noah was the first owner, headed
East out of the city, the engine revving at
its limit as we climbed the steep cliffs.
Isak Pasa Palace was the first stop after
twenty minutes. The building was started
in 1685 and took 99 years to complete.
Despite the Russian invasion which
desecrated it in 1917 the ruins are still
breathtaking, with the Seljuk, Ottoman,
Georgian, Persian and Armenian
architecture still intact and competing
against the arid ochre landscape of
volcanic soils. Behind the palace sits a
mosque from 1512 which is still used for
prayer. Behind this, rising out of the cliffs
are the 800BC walls of the old city.
The thirty minute ration allowed to
view the palace was barely enough.
Everyone sat in the bus waiting for me as
I scrambled frantically around the ruins
exploring every room on each level.
Finally the guide had to come and extract
me himself!
Sufficiently recovered, the bus dragged
us over the next ridge to descend into a
green valley. The screaming engine
echoed around the hills beckoning little
Kurdish shepherd children and massive
sheep dogs from the fields. They scurried
to the roadside like iron filings to a
magnet. The dogs were like horses and
stood barking in the road ready to head-
butt the bus as we passed. The children
threw sticks, the dogs bit the tyres and
we prayed not to break down as the bus
spluttered past. Two small villages later
the driver felt it was safe to stop. The
dogs were gone but the children were
still there, snapping our ankles with cries
of 'photo...photo'. One carried a rams
skull which he brandished on his
forehead like some Greek beast.
The village men would not talk to us,
and argued over the repair of a tractor.
The house-proud women tempted us into
a home. The small white dung and mud
walled building was neatly carpeted, the
walls had flock wallpaper and the ceiling
had polystyrene tiles. A stereo sat on a
table and a redundant television squatted
in the corner awaiting the arrival of
electricity. Our guide was impatient to
hurry on. I had already messed up his
schedule once.
The descent continued until we reached
an area of cleared ground and a newly
built restaurant complex overlooking the
'Noah's Ark remains'. The 'boat hull'
resembling the remains of the Marie Rose
lay about 300 metres away across a dry
river bed. It was clearly only meant to be
viewed at a distance. Determined to get
my value for money I scrambled down
the steep bank and dashed over the
hummocky ground to examine the
remains. I had only a few minutes before
the bus horn called me back. I returned
breathless to the group who applauded as
I passed a small piece of petrified wood
around. Whether from boat or tree was
for them to decide.
Our lunch stop was the corner shop at
the Iranian border. Biscuits and bubble
gum were on the menu. These we
chewed as the bus bounced North along
the border to the 'meteorite crater. The
unimpressive cavity strongly resembled a
small World War Two bomb crater,
although the sign boasted its vital
statistics and preached in confusing
English that 'the hole of meteor is the
second crater in
the world except
(that) another one
which is in
Alaska'.
The final venue
involved a
strenuous drive
across virgin lava
flows to reach the
ice cave. A short
walk took us
from the
exhausting heat
of the afternoon
into the icy drafts
from a low wide
hole. Descending into the chilled air we
met crowds of Kurdish women
brandishing head-sized chunks of clear ice
in their numbed hands. They filled canvas
shopping bags to carry the perishable
jewels home. We gave some of them a
lift the four kilometres back to their
village. They sat in over-awed silence, the
melting ice oozing from their bags and
pooling on the dusty bus floor.
We swapped buses in Dogubuyazit for
the four hour trip to Van. It sits on the
south-eastern shores of the vast Lake
Van, Turkey's 'Dead Sea', a mass of
buoyant alkaline water the size of Greater
London. The lake is famous for the
Armenian churches which can be found
on the many small islands.
Time was against us and Van was our
last taste of the East before we dashed
back to the West. Covering 1,500
kilometres and passing through several
centuries we reached Antalya feeling that
we had discovered a world poorly
represented in expensive whitewashed
carpet shops and chip and burger bars of
Bodrum.
Christopher Riley
WORLD LEADERS
IN
STUDENT TRAVEL
Low cost flights
on quality airlines
Special fares for
students
Weekend breaks,
tours & group
bookings
Well travelled
consultants to
guide you
Over 120 offices worldwide
U L U T R A V E L
S H E R F I E L D B U I L D I N G
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E
99209
ULU TRAVEL

