£eU&to
to the £dito*
FELIX STINKS
Dear Sir,
"Pheonix" and "Scrutiny", in order to in-
crease their circulations, would pander to the
more basic instincts of the students, the mor-
al standards and general tone of our fort-
nightly newspaper were always above repro-
ach.
I was therefore shoked when I opened my
Felix dated May 4th to find myself staring at
the nearly naked form of our {very attract-
ive) Carnival Queen. Fortunately, Miss
Petri does not lend herself to pornography
but this was obviously foremost in the mind
of the Editor when he had the picture prin-
ted.
In the name of common decency, I wish
0 protest most strongly that by inserting
such material in a Union publication, the
best interests of the College are not served.
1 suggest that this is not the way to render
Felix solvent once more. Is Mr. Cfumdmal
giving us a newspaper or a 'Playboy'!
People in positions of responsibility such
as the Editor must see to it that any corrup-
tion of student morals must not occur be-
cause of perusual of their magazines. They
must ensure that the contents of same are
pure and decent.
O R B I T I N G I N T H E N O O S P H E R E
by C A T C A L L
Like my rival Colcutt has given up and
Colcutt the second too and like how its only
gonna be me this week as the Editor says
like {"Quick man fill six pages or you'll go
the way of your forefathers") and me beine
so alcoholically elevated that I almost or-
bited out like man here I was with this un-
dulating female at the May Ball and I dan-
cing and twisting like I got the aches man
and what with seven pints fighting it out
with the Salmon I said I must quick make
for the vouknowwhat and suddenly I hear a
cry in distress. Pinners Fm p . . . and like I
alwavs said if a man's drowning you got be
thre with a straw and so I rushed to the
bar and the barman he looked all queer so
he could have been Martian (green he was
and yellow looks) and so I rushed to the you-
knowwhat and my holy cow if it ain't some-
one (his stance curved like a Hockey stbk)
looking into the locked of the youknow with
a mirror like the Chairman's inside he says
like fast asleep and should I pull youknow
to awaken him and suddenly a muttered
she's got fabulous — and then a Howl
Finners I'm p . . . and man like I made it
away from those two lunatics and started
reflecting how all these top cowboys are more
alcohol inflated than a baloon in abrewery
like when the previous night after the Cai
nival sherry party I staggered down the stairs
past the door and past the reclining torn,
of was it the Chairman of Recreations re-
creating and past the quad into Oops the
Secretary like he wanders out and gets into
his whathecalls a car like starts and straight
into a Mini-Minor and the swearing must
have curdled someone's late night milk and
he walks out of his car like he wants to
cool off and'fht next thing he is yelling an
infernally Freudian to the President of the
Dancing Club Mike when I get married
I'm going to have My 2lst in your
FELIX
/ have the highest regard for the Carnival
Queen, and we all realise that her motives
in allowing- the photograph to be printed
deserve the highest praise, who can tell,
however, where the Editor will lead us with
his journalistic dabbling.
It just won't wash, Mr. Chandmal. If vou
wiih to emulate the circulation figures of
the Carnival Magazine, you'll have to find
another way of doing it
Yours sincerely,
W . ALAN IRVINE
Carnival Magazine Editor
A PLEA FOR INSANITY
Dear Sir,
We, the undersigned, were most disappointed
o read the comments in your last issue un-
der the heading of "Your Guess" on page
six column three. In th's article, idiot or
idiots unknown have attempted to place
methodical interpretation on the labels "In",
"Out", "Left". "Right", "Up", "Down"
which one of\us placed on the letter racks
in the Union Office at the request of the
other. Now isn't this just typical of the in-
human approach of the unimaginative, logic
incensed technologist! Doesn't he under-
stand that in thif high pressure world of
Lvle-Stacev organisation and 'Business Meth-
ods we need some nonsensical outlet for our
frustrations. Let's have an Illogical Society.
Yours insincerely,
MR. & MRS. ROB
{Ex-Ed. & Perm. Sec.)
bedroom and like Dad does he remember a
tiling the next morning O no he says took nu.
twenty minutes to find what I call my car
and O my God like You should have been
in Weeks Hall the night when the sheep wa»
barbecued and like 1 say Dad it wasn't only
the sheep that was fried that night like
here were the Secretary and President
of I'd like to tell you but I can't and
certain members of Council and soccer play-
ers and girl-friends and like this prominent
ICWArian is sitting next to this Council
member and hitting him and teasing him and
O I'm so sweet and coy and you big bully
and like how the big bully takes her and turns
her around and smacks he daintily covered
youknowwhat and the shenadigans that en-
sue like just then a man walks straight in
through the door only it wasn't and the glass
on the floor and on the door and like this
is the third time in Week's Hall ; nd
it was only the other night I pass a
locked door and I hear voices (lmost
ancestral) shouting and then I recognise
them like Dad the President of R.C.S. says
Hey iLawrie what do you thing of my article
for Felix and like Lawrie waits and says What
)dp you expect pepole to get out of it
expect confusion and Mac says there are five
bloody good phrases in the article and Dad
replies Law like you don't know what they
except confusion and Mac says there are five
the line <to prevent the all too prevalent ten-
dencies of Technicalia and Law says / under-
stood the last word Bloody good football
team and like Mac says my ending's superb
and Lawrie says Yea why don't you throw
the rest Out and if this year's executive is
like this what makes you think the next one's
better like if you knew who was standing
you'd chew your hat like Dad just wouldn't
believe who these two Presidential candidates
are.and like I said I must go back to James
Joyce and Allen Ginsberg Hike he (Gins-
berg) once told me whv do vou trv and write
like Shakespeare when you can write like God
and now youknowwhat he means
Our student guests
by Father IVOR SMITH CAMERON
Seen on a notice board outside a place of
worship;
"SERMONS during the following Sundays
will be on the following subjects;
GOD
CHRIST
COLOURED PEOPLE
DISEASES
Put in this way they sounded quite signific-
ant!
The telephone bells rings. 'Oh, I'm sorry
for bothering you, but could you help? My
friend from Accra can't find any accom-
modation. He is studying at L.S.E." Such
calls are frequent yet what can I do? I know
that the need is urgent while adequate accom-
modation for the persons concerned is scarce.
But do something we must.
Of the 40,000 students from overseas
studying in this country, over half of them
are in the London area. In 1945. there can-
not have been more than 1.500 in the whole
country, but by 1950 this had risen to 10,000
and to 30,000 in 1955. Of the 40,000 at pre-
sent in England, epproximately 10,000 are
at Technical Colleges. Another 10,000 are at
the universities, and the rest at other instit-
utes of learning, such as training colleges,
Inns of Court, trainees in industry, com-
merce students, evening class students etc.
Among the problems which confront visitors
from overseas are the following:
1. Undoubtedly, the greatest problem is
the sheer loneliness and utter isolation they
experience in the 'big citv'. English students
coming up to London experience the same
problem, although to a lesser degree. Lon-
don is so unlike the little village or county
town where you knew the rest of the youth
club, or the other sixth formers. The students
from India, or Africa or Malava feel this
lineliness even more poignantly; patterns of
community life are so different here from
what they were back in Bombay, or Kampa-
la, or Georgetown, the change of environ-
ment so immense, that many fail to bridge
the gulf and the sad result is an inadequate
relationship in dealing with those of a dif-
ferent social and cultural background. It has
been said "Living is Belonging". People who
do not feel (hey 'belong' do not really 'live'
in the full sense of the word. A man not ful-
ly integrated into the society which sur-
rounds him, cannot give of his best. Thougn
Continued overleaf.

