FELIX
he may be of outstanding cultural and in-
tellectual ability, his contrubution to the
student world is stultified, and in some
cases completely atrophied, because he is not
,at home' in his surroundings.
2. There is also the problem of colour pre-
judice. There is perhaps a grain of truth in
what is called the British Reserve. But mv ob-
servations of the public behaviour of the
English student leads me to describe his
behaviour in certain respects as anything but
reserved. Much real discrimination is in-
volved in the question of student accommod-
ation. I am aware that there is an ever in-
creasing number who view the whole quest-
ion of colour discriminating in accommod-
ation with horror and who are trying to do
something about it. But the stark fact re-
mains that over 20% of the advertisements
in some of the London Local weekly news-
papers bear the words 'no coloured'; and we
may safely conjucture that many of the re-
maining 80 % of landlords would never ac-
cept a coloured student. Their reasons,
make little difference to the coloured stud-
ent who feels snubbed, humiliated and in-
ferior. When the man or woman so treated
turns out to be a person of integrity, sensit-
ivity and culture then the damage done can
be lasting and far reaching.
3. The English often display an appalling
ignorance of the home countries of the over-
seas students, and of their interests. Under
the slogan of 'Never discuss religion or pol-
ities', many an EngHman successfully hides
his indifference to both — an indifference
which can so easily lead to a neglect of the
more 'substantial' matters of life, in favour
,of the Twist, or the Cup Final. Often over-
seas students lose all interest in discissiuR
anv of their concerns and problems with
'English pepole because they believe the En<»-
'lish have very little interest in or understand-
ing of the various political or social instit-
iutions of their particular countries.
Why do we never seem to be able intelli-
gently to distinguish between whether a man
has come from British Guina, or Jamaica,
from India or Pakistan, from West or East
Africa?
By failing in this respect we fail right at
the start to make the proper initial contact
with the person concerned, for each person
is proud of his particular country and does
not think it a compliment to be mistaken
as coming from another
Often because of these factors — and
there are many others too — the vast maj-
ority of studens from overseas retreat into
themselves and limit their real personal re-
lationships solely to those of their own eth-
nic or national groups, or bury themselves
completely in their studies with the sole in-
tention of getting a good degree quickly and
then hurrying home at the earliest oppoi-
tunity.
There are, of course, in addition the pei-
ennial student problems of lack of finance,
climatic and dietary difficulties. It is small
wonder then, that in view of all these fact-
ors that mental breakdowns among students
from overseas are said to be greater in num-
ber than among English students.
There are certain problems whfch fice
students coming from the church overseas,
which they have to face in addition to those
I have already mentioned. Having been
taught that the founders of the Christian
Church in his own homeland came from me
West, and most probably from this land, he
is justified in peeking the confirmation of
the Faith in the lives and witness the people
of England. But seek he does in vain, for
behind the mask of 'tolerance' fin matters
of the Faith, lies hid the cold fact of
'apathy' or 'indifference'. A very high pro-
portion of overseas Christian students have
no contact with Christian life and witness
when thy are in England, and very few of
that number link up again with the Church
when they return home. It has been my pri-
vilage to be involved in the valient attempts
of my own and other church traditions to
do something about solving these various
difficulties. I will end this article by making
certain suggestions.
Although the problem of residential ac-
commodation is {being tackled, progress is
slow. Visiting, as I do the various halls of
residence it is only too clear that a sym-
pathetic and considerate warden can bring
out from a student qualities of leader-
ship and responsibility. M y experience — in
this matter of overseas students in the var-
ious university and college halls of residence
— shows that in general the nunmber of
places allotted to them is high and for this
we have to be truly grateful.
But the problem of accommodation for
the student who is not in hall remains, and
is still largely unsolved. There are various
hostels for overseas students run by church
organisations, such as the Methodist Inter-
national House, in Bavswater; the William
Temple House in Earl's Court; or other
bodies interested in the walfare of students
form overseas, such as Zebra House in South
Kensington; Impala House in Regent's Park;
etc, or there are yet again halls of residence
run by agencies of the various governments
such as the Indian Students' Union; Hong
Kong House; Malaya House; etc., but 20,000
students is a lot of students. The Church
of England has plans for a very large Hostel
in London which can act as a transit centre
but the burning question of accommodation
remains.
The British Council organises parties of
students to visit certain areas in London —
for example, areas like Acton OT Balham. A
regular house to house visiting is conducted
along certain streets and accommodation is
sought for students from overseas. Through
this method the names and addresses of
people who do not mind having students
from overseas live with them is obtained. I
would like to see such parties organised in
Imperial College, and I would be happy to
he included in any of them.
The people the overseas students get to
know and like best are those students with
whom they share a laboratory or attend a
lecture wifli. During the vacation many of
the overseas students have no home to re-
turn to and I feel sure that they would great-
ly welcome the opportunity to spend their
vacation or a part of it — in the homes of
their college friends. Hospitality may smack
of 'the patronising attitude'. Friendship takes
time to grow and one having taken root
persists.
Finally a word to Christians upon whom
a special responsibility rests. 7 was a stran-
ger and ye took me in' was our Lord's word
of encouragement to those who did corporal
works of mercy for others. The least we can
do is not to weaken the faith of a brother
from the church in other land. He wants to
see Christians living their faith not just dis-
cussing or talking about it. In the search for
'accommodation; iri the inviting of foreign
i students to your home during the vacation;
in promoting the various activities of stud-
ent bodies working for the interests 6f the
students from overseas, such as the Internat-
ional Relations Club, — in all these wa#s
we must feel an obligation and a duty, al-
though at the time perhaps it might not prove
either convenient nor even congenial.
IVOR SMITH CAMERON
F E L I X S M A L L A D S
P A Y I N G J O B
Lucrative spare-time employment is offered
by Oxford undergraduate publication
requiring representatives to sell advertising
space in London. Apply to: London
Business Manager, Oxford Circus Public-
ations, 12, Glazbury Road, London, W.14.
FULham 2728.
T H E 8TH W O N D E R of the world — my
car — F O R S A L E — £20. Austin 7 in great
nick. M . Combes (Union Rack).
P A Y I N G passanger would like lift to South-
ampton at wee-ends. Any offers? Contact:
P. Kilty. Int. 2818
G E N U I N E B A R G A I N Electric Razors:
Accura 3 (German). British and Continental
Mains, 6 volt car battery or tapping,' self
contained regenerative battery lasting 10
days. One year guarantee. Retail Price
£9.18.6. Price to anyone interested at I.C.:
£6.17.6. Contact: P.J. Lawrence, P.G.E.E.
F O R S A L E 1960 bike: Triumph: drops,
dynohub lighting, 4 speeds S / A with 2
speed Benelux. Recently overhauled. Tools,
spare extension, sprockets, etc. £11 only.
J, Gent, Aero 1.
A V E R Y high class General Electric tran-
sitor radio is to be sacrificed bv its present
proud owned. A fee as small as £7 or near
offer will be accepted. Apply to Pete Dale,
Room 78, Beit Hall.
F O U N D on the door of Room 101, New
Hostel, Beit Hall. One ladies unmxntxxnxble
containing two half grapefruits. Will owner
please collect. D. Heaton, I C E .
LAMLEY'S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
BOOKS
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G INSTRUMENTS
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1. 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7.

