T H E U N I O N IS M Y S H E P H E R D
There's nothing wrong with this Union
by M J . STACBY
Every year we bear a great deal of talk
about what is wrong with the Union. Now
potential solutions as there are critics. Now
I am not proposing to put forward any kind
of panacea for such short-comings as we have
because I honestlv don't believe that there
is all that organically wrong with the Union.
If anything, we diagnose an occasional mal-
aise; nothing more serious.
What I am proposing to do is to examine
a particular aspect of students in general,
one Hhat is of the utmost nrnxvlance, vet
one which almost never receives any atten-
tion. Their sense of perspective.
For the first week or so after students join
this College, they suffer through speech after
after speech exhorting them to 'strive
a balance between work and relaxation.
Let's examine a few facts.
a. This is quite a hard working College;
no courses are yet extended to four years al-
though this is common in other universities,
yet our standards are as good or better than
flieirs as evidenced by the salaries offered 10
our graduates.
b. This is an expanding College. The num-
ber of students capable of easily doing well
is not expanding nearly so fast, but the Col-
lege authorities are rightly reluctant to lower
our standards.
c. This is one of the principal schools of
post-graduates study in the country. About
I man in 4 is working on a post-graduate
course of research and a large percentage of
these are from overseas.
I need hardly add that we are a predomin-
antly masculine .entirely scientific or techno-
logical College situated in the largest city in
Britain, or that our students mostly live away
from the campus, and that this makes com-
parison with most other large London col-
leges difficult
It is prettv clear what all this adds up to.
Precisely the situation we observe and about
which so manv complain. We have a hare
cere of 'sport men', an uncounted army of
'brown-baggers', and a number of students
variously estimated between 500 and 1,000,
about whom little is said, but who fall some-
where between these two categories.
The most unfortunate aspect of all is that
a lack of understanding and tolerance has
grown up between the extreme groups. The
men in the bar loudly inveigh the brown-bag-
ger without ever accepting that there must
be a very large number of people in this Col-
lege who will be lucky to get so much as
a pass unless thev do little else but work,
auite apart from the very studious tvpes which
tend to conereeate in places like this. And
let's be perfectly clear that a student's main
job is to get a degree. As for the brown-bag-
gers themselves, thev usuallv resent the noisv
self-assertiveness of the sport men. and fail to
recogni7ei their good fortune in being able
to keep their tutor* happv and still eniov an
active recreational life. A d d to them the
considerable number of married post-gradu-
ates and overseas students whose interests are
generally very diverse nno we are forced to
admit that about one third of the student
body will always take little or no part in
activities no matter what inducements are
offered.
The fault is not with the Union but
with the people themselves, but here we
run up against the rather intolerant
group attitudes which are probably lar-
gely sprawned by the types of training
our students receive. People who are
continuously disciplined in equation and
exactitudes unconciously tend to be equally
uncompromising in their assesment of their
fellows whom they ruthlesly categorize. The
prevalent attitude is that one falls into one
group or another, and that once labelled,
there is but a small chance of redemption,
it is a severe indictment of the thinking of
a student body that one is either destined
for the 9 to 5 routine or else a highly active,
obviously enjoyable, though extremely tax-
ing existence as one of the fortunate few,
while those who do struggle for a compro-
mise are banished to virtual obscurity. This
may appear extreme, but in reality is the
thoice which has to be made by everyone
in college at some time.
Just what can be done to improve matters
is a subject of endless debate. We hear o p
timists who glibly suggest that everything
can be achieved by a judicious wave o f a
Presidential magic wand, while taking care
never to be very specific as to the exact
manner of the transformation. Sceptics on
the other hand evince astonishment when
anyone does manage to work up some cor-
porate activity in which many students can
take some part rather than it being the pre-
rogative of a small group: for example, the
Charity Carnival. But the principal obstacles
remain — academic pressure and geograpn-
ical environment, conspire to make regular,
even though not particularly demanding,
participation in Union life something of a
problem for a great number of students. The
College authorities have gone to great effort
and expense to ameliorate the Kfe of our
hundrers of scattered digs dwellers. Next
vear, South Side will open accommodation
for another 450 students and by the time
the East Side residence is completed, our
hostel capacity will top 1000 places. In ad-
dition to this, the pressure on the accomod-
ation near the College is eased and many
students can move closer. Freed from the
nagging worry of train timetables, rush hour
crowds, uneaten meals and refractory land-
ladies, and all the manv incident difficulties
of digs, flats and even homes, the student
who at present dashes for the 5.44 can look
forward to some agreeable relaxation in or
around the Union. Furthermore, as the num-
ber of students available increases, it is quite,
reasonable to expect a corresponding rise in the
amount of activity' around the Union. For
this reason, if for no other, I am inclined not
to agree with those who suggest that as soon
as South Side opens, the student body will
desert our present Union building in favour
of some smart furniture and the mixed bar.
We are at this moments confronted with
a task of some considerable magnitude and
complexity, yet one that carries a comensur-
ate reward. I think it is time to get our own
thinking straight. We are all members of this
Union, from brown-bagger to Executive Of-
ficer, and it is our collective interest that is
at stake. It's time to stop dividing ourselves
into watertight groups, and it's time to take
a new look at the problem and to get things
in perspective. Then it will be time to get
on with the job.
by JOHN FAIRFIELD
President of Mines
The Union is my shepherd: I shall not
work.
T r me the biggest problem of running a
Union is doing just that and trying to get
a degree all at the same time. Be that as
it may, I would certainly prefer it that way
rather than being a postgraduate President.
The trouble with so many post-graduate
Presidents is that they tend to devote far
too much of their time in trying to run the
whole outfit by themselves. To me the great-
est proviso in running a Union is for the
man in charge to have an efficient and effect-
ive committee behind him. I must confess
that one of my major problems is time, and
here of course you turn around and suggest
that if I was a P.G. I would have more time.
To this I say 'Yes', but still that it is not
necessarily a good thing. The greatest essen-
tial is being in permanent contact with the
entire Union and this is, certainly facilitated
by being an undergraduate. I do not suggest,
however, that an undergraduate could ever
survive as President of I.C. Why not? The
time factor again. Within Mines and I'.C. I
have twelve boards and committees to sit
on, most of which meet at least two or three
times a term, so heaven knows how many
poor old Si has.
As President of Mines I have a decided ad-
vantage over my two colleagues in that all
Minesmen are thankfully still all under the
same roof, which not only greatly improves
departmental contact, but also staff-student
relations.
I will admit that our numbers are inferior
to our rivals within I.C. and this once again
makes matters somewhat easier as far as run-
ning the Union is concerned, but considering
that we are barely one quarter the size of
each of the other two we certainly get more
than our fair share of spoils (rowing excluded).
In fact it was not until last year our five
year reign as dual Rugby Cup winners was
ended, and only three years ago we lost the
Rector's Cup for the first time since it was
initiated.
Being the size that we are we could easily
get ousted out of nearly everything — that
we are not is proof of the importance of
everyone within the Union pulling their
weight.
With the coming of South Side, Constitu-
ent College Union spirit will be tested to the
full, so forget those 'Provincial, Universities'
and let Hall spirit take care of itself.
I shall fear no recriminations, for the Union
is with me. The bar shall comfort me.
Another problem facing a Constituent Col-
lege President is that he is automatically a
Vice-President of I.C. — another large ab-
sorber of time. (Some day I'll get around to
finding out whose lectures I should be at-
tending on Mondays.). This of course, brings
me to the question of having a deputy Pre-
sident of I.C. in addition to the secretary.
I for one am wholeheartedly in favour of
this, and had more of you bothered to at-
tend the last I'.C. Union meeting we could
have had a quorum to discuss this. With the
opening of South Side the pressure will re-
ally be on the Executive in earnest, but on
the present showing of apathy we won't even
have one (or a Council) next year.
The Union will follow me all the days of
my life: and I shall dwell in a Council
House for ever.

