THE EXPANSION
by LAWRIE AUSTIN
2 from 3 Permutation.
S T U D E N T : T H E UNIONS : EXPANSION
The permutation of three simple nouns gives
rise to the problems of the Union Officials
of 1. C. and tfie Constituent Colleges.
T H E S T U D E N T UNIONS ; T H E UNION EXPANSION
S T U D E N T EXPANSIONS
The batting advice given to the semi-
paralytic batsman was "Hit out at the Mid-
dle one" so likewise being of a semi-sober
(semi-paralytic) frame of mind I will kick-
off with t h e Unions.
Since it is t h e Unions I will confine my
remarks to I.C. and the Guilds. During the
past few weeks I have heard the following
questions asked and discussed at least a doz-
en times, "What's wrong with the I.C.
Union this year?" M y answer to this has
been that in general there is nothing very
wrong (at least no more than usual) and that
part of the faults lies outside the control of
thelads inside the Union Office. Just take a
look at the record so far this year. The clubs
and societies are extremely active and once
, again smoothly anflfefficientlv run. The Union
has emerged from the Staff-Student Officer
discussions on the all important Student-
Union expansion into South Side with flying
colours, and at a time like this failure to put,
the students' point of view to the planning
Staff and Administrative Staff .might as well
have caused a great deal of frustration and
disappointment to future students of the I.C.
Union. The Union building has. all in all,
all things taken into account, all things be-
ing equal, been very well managed? I'.C. has
once again dominated U.L. competitions and
has represented U . L . sporting and social
clubs to a high degree. A s I see it the only
flies in the ointment are the I.C. Union Meet-
ings. One Quorum out of three reallv is not
food enough, and. in mv opinion, due to two
factors: I.) Poor agendas. Who's fault? The
Executive's? Or. perhaps y o u r s M r .
Member? Y o u see this year's President, Si
Lvle has not "pushed or rigged" motions for
Union Meetings but left it to the student to
raise his own questions and suggestions.
When two meetings are inquorate then it
can only be assumed that eveyone is
"Happy" so to speak . . . however, if any
Union member should be "Unhappy" then
"T o S p e a k" is the solution . . .
2.) Poor, practically non-existant publicity
of forthcoming Meetings. Unfortunately it
has been realised a little too late that the
., average Union Member cannot read stereo-
typed notices from a distance ranging from
one foot to infinity and like as not has been
told (and even then several times probably)
and persuaded to come along.
The Constituent Colleges' play a comp-
lementary and not a separate part /in the
structure of the I.C. Union and the Constitu-
ent College Man should try to ^member
this; and at this point I will put on my other
cap and mention Guilds Union. This year
in Guilds we have had four Union Meetings
and all of them have had an I.C. quorum
present! Naturally, it has been very encour-
aging for us to see a revival in Union spim
and at a time when it was most needed, f
admit that to date "sport in general" has
been the theme and that in all cases attract-
FELIX
ive agenda and publicity has set the scene
for spontaneous humour from the Guilds-
men . . . I have not been disappointed.
The next few years is going to be difficult
for the Guilds Union Officers during the
change over from the old dustv Waterhouse
building into the three new shiny plate glass
and polished wood buildings which tend to
scratch rather easily and where it will be
some years yet before the performance of the
fire hoses have been fully determined! Var-
nish and polish when applied to Constituent
Unions tend to leave a dull finish and it will
be very much up to the 300 or so enthusiastic
Guildsmen / women to carry the Union safely
over this "transitional" river.
However, the expansion has not only
created problems it has also solved one. The
Union will have a large spacious, luxurious
and well equiped Union Office in E . l . By
tearing out the "heart of the old Union" By
demolishing Waterhouse the expansion has
thoughtfully created us a new one almost in
the centre of the Engineering Buildings which
will no doubt prove to be not only a centre
of Union activities but also a meeting place
for the sporting and social clubs.
The student expansion in Guilds will be
completed bv 1965 when the numbers will
have risen from the present 1.200 to 1,500
and this increase will be almost entirelv post-
graduates, and consequently has forced the
Union to review its policies. (For example
next year thre will be m o r e post-gradu-
ates than undergraduate freshers.). Next year,
for the first time, with financial aid from the
Old Centralians post-graduate receptions as
well as freshers dinners will be held in the
first term.
For the student who finds time only for
work I will leave him with the following
Chinese proverb . . .
Confucius he says "All work and no play
makes Jack richest man tin the Graveyard".
The Vicious Circle
by FINLAY MCPHERSON
A university education is one of the most
sought after status symbols of today. The
eager schoolboys come from miles around to
obtain entrance to this College whilst prin-
cipals remind the fresher of the ghostly
figures of those who were turned away. But
when the hubbub has died down and the
final examinations have been taken, can the
results be said to be educational? Or have
you obtained a portable bibliography?
To raise a technical college to the level
of a University one must have a system
which teaches student how to think and more
important still, how to communicate his
thought. It is the latter problem which causes
the most hardship, T o communicate one's
ideas to another, despite the perfections of
language, has always been man's most dif-
ficult problem.
In this country in particular people are
loth to exchange ideas and thoughts in case
these confidences are misused. A s a result
many people are neurotic, self-centred, lone-
ly and unhappy. They retain their thoughts
and they seldom voice their opinions lest
they be ridiculed. How often will someone
pour scorn on someone's ideas while inward-
ly wanting to acknowledge them?
It is this problem, the problem of expres-
sion that the Universities must solve. Let us
look at a specific example. The Royal Col-
lege of Science. A t the beginning of last year
an analysis of the situation showed that
many students knew little or nothing about
the activities of the Department that they
5 —
were in, few of the staff knew what was go-
ing on in other departments, upon examin-
ation one found that the students and the
staff wanted to get on friendlier terms Hut
both sides were worried as to what would
be the reaction of the other.
The R.C.S. Union looked at the situation
for a considerable time and changes have
been made in its structure to see if a better
relationship with the staff within the large
departments could not be attained. The sys-
tem, comprising of a departmental commit-
tee in each of the three large departments,
should go a long way in easing the 'barrier'
:that exists between students and staff. It
should enable the students to know more about
their fellow students as well as helping the
staff to keep in touch with present day stud-
ent feelihg.
The possibility of this svstem lies in the
future. It could be used by various groirps
such as entertainments to whip up support
by getting the various departmental commit-
tees to organise sections; it could be used
to provide a feed-back mechanism for com-
plaints and suggestions on the course; it
could be used to solve problems that may
arise in a particular year or from a particular
student. However, its main intention is to
strengthen the Union and to prevent the all
too prevalent tendencies to Technicalia.
In the book of a Chinese thinker who
lived the '4th century B.C., Chuang-tsu, cer-
tain symbolic characters are conversing to-
gether, and one of them, called the God of
the Northern Sea, asks, "How shall I talk
of the sea to a frog, if he has- never left his
pond? How shall I talk of the frost to the
bird of the summer land, if it has never left
the land of its birth? How shall I talk of
jfe with the sage, if he is the prisoner of
his doctrine?"
It is important that both students and staff
alike are the captains of then souls rather
than the prisoners of their doctrines. A new
system such as the R.C.S.U. have got, may
help solve a situation but it is far'from pro-
vidinp the answer.
It is necessary for all at this College to
talk, argue, debate, discuss, look, see and
report, and above alll understand. The back-
biting, pernicious scrabblings of gossipMnon-
gers; the lonely self-centred and, all too of-
ten, selfish way of life of the brownwbagfer;
the lack of understanding, the attitude of
mind of an English, that most civilised of
creatures although it is the reddish mantle
of decaying Empire tea-parties that he
wears, that attitude of mind which smiles
politely and when you are gone waxes loud
in vilification; all these things must disap-
pear if we wish to become a University.
A l l the present problems stem from our
inability to communicate; the problem of
coloured students is brought about by the
problem of the inexpressive, seemingly dis-
/nterested inarticulate frame of mind which
is settling in this latter- day Urbania. The
interest each person has in another is very
real, for it is only by this common touch'
that one can enlarge and verify one's own
experience whilst escaping from the private
hell of lonliness. The difficulty is that every-
one wants to find out at no personal cost
what is the world which lies around. One
can only discover, one can only communic-
ate by accepting the responsibility for one's
own actions and stepping out to meet the
other point of view. Of course, all does not
go well but not until people cast off their
hysterical shell of enforced turpitude and
step out to meet the challenge and see the
world for the first time, will we even begin
to approach the level of a University.
To think and not express the thought is
to sow the seed and not reap the harvest

