A T H L E T I C S
/, by A.B. SPICER
The Athletic Club's season got off to a good
start at the end of the*Easter term by win-
nig both of its triangular matches. King's
and University Colleges were defeated in tht
first match and L.S.E. and Queen Mary Col-
lege in the second. A biting, icy wind pre-
vented any really good performances but J.
Harrison in the first match was only just beat-
en by Oladappo of U.C. in the 100 vds.
sprint. Oladappo was later to win the Uni-
versity Championships' title in this event. J.
Mood (52.0 sees.) and J.A. Bell's (16.14 sees.)
winning times for the 440 yds. and 120 yds.
hurdles respectively were quite good con-
sidering the conditions.
In the second trangular match I.C. pro-
vided the winners of every event with the
exception of the Pole Vault and the High
Jump. John Wood held off the challeee of
Schumacher of L.S.E. in the 880 vds. to win
in 2 mins. 3. sees., whilst Paul Clifton, who
has added speed to his stamina this vear,
crossed the line first in the 440 yds. Other
noteworthv performances were Turner in the
Javelin (166'4"). Gordon in the Triple T»mp
4171") and Creed in the Lond Jump (19'11">
On April 28th 12 T.C. athletes iourneved
to Manchester for a match against the Uni-
versity and Cheshire A . A . A . The Colleee
team performed better than was expected, in-
deed thev held their own on the track but
were heavily outclassed in the field events.
John won a storming 440 vds in 50 4 se~<;
and then was just robbed of the double in
the 220 yds. bv Brook of Cheshire in 23.0
sees. John Cleator courageously set the pace
for the first mile of the 3 mile race, but
alas he was not on top form this dav and
FELIX
B A S K E T B A L L R E P O R T
The Basketball team completed a grteat
season by winning its fourth major trophy
last Saturday, the London League Div. I. The
game was described as "the best I've seen
this year" by the League's Chairman. With
12 pts. down and four minutes to go things
looked prety grim but Some very brilliant
sharp-shooting brought down the margin to
one point down and twenty seconds to go.
Another foul on Rupf gave us the opportun-
ity to win as we sank both .shots to bring the
score 56-55 in our favour.
Ron Hill of Manchester (a cross-county iti-
ternational) took over the lead and won w
the good time of 14 mins. 5.(7 sees.
Lie in the sun
longer
Use N . U . S, charter flights and add two e x t r a days to your
holiday—and maybe y o u' 1 1 be sunburnt all over.
Air travel for the modern student is cheap—almost the same
price as normal surface travel—smooth and swift, in fully
pressurized Viscounts, Elizabethans and D. C. 6's. Normal safety
regulations apply.
Arrive for your holiday fresh and in style—you willybe surprised
how little it costs. W
1962 N . U . S. CHARTER FLIGHTS PROGRAMME I N C L U D E S PARIS,
NICE, MADRID, BARCELONA, MILAN, C O P E N H A G E N A N D B A S L E .
Post this coupon today to;
N . U . S. Travel Department,
3, Endsleigh Street,
London, W. C. 1
Please send details of charter flights /inclusive holidays 1
Name .••.,«
Address
College Date
f Delete as neccessary. Inclusive tours programme gives details
of holidays to many European countries, U . S. S. R. and
Greece—an exciting programme well worth seeing.
Inter collegiate
sports-dag
The inter-college sports held at Motspur
Park on Wednesday, 2nd Mav developed in-
to a real ding-dong hartle between R.C.S.
and Guilds. Mines, however, provided 4 in-
dividual champions, Alcock in the Discus
(120'61") and Shot Putt (379"). Asekun in
the Pole Vault (10*) and Nicholson in the
High Jump (5*7"). Two new best Sports Day
performances were set up: J. Wood (50.0
sees) in the 4400 vds. and J . Harrison in the
Triple Jump (42' 111**). Laurie Austin, the
Guilds President beat all the hot favourites
for the Long Jump title with a leap of 20'4".
Paul Clifton lead from start to finish in the
half mile and won in the fast time of 1 min.
57.6 sees. Joe Fitzsimmons was second in i
min 58.6 sees, a very good time for this fre-
sher who shows great potential over this dis-
tance. Jock Henry, the College Sxcxrxtx
Officer, starting with a handicap of 40 yds.
thrashed all opposition to win the Staff Race
and a bottle of sherry. R.C.S. eventually made
in their third successive victory by beating
Guilds. The final scores were:
R.C.S.
C. & G .
R . C . M .
158 pts.
1461 Pts.
92| P &

