arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 9 November 2007 felix
Arts
Pop goes the portraits. Literally
Emily Wilson pops into the National Portrait Gallery for a bite to eat and a Pop Art portrait or two...
I
t’s easy to forget about the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery, tucked
away as it is behind the better
known National Gallery at Tra-
falgar Square. But now is the
ideal time to visit the main collections
while you’re popping in for Pop Art
Portraits, the major exhibition running
until 20th January 2008.
I hadn’t been to the National Portrait
Gallery since the long-ago days of my
childhood. All I could remember about
it was it being small, slightly cramped
and full of... well... portraits. The NPG,
upon more recent inspection, is still
small and slightly cramped, but has
obviously had lashings of National
Lottery money thrown at it since my
last visit. The building’s been modern-
ized to within an inch of its life but still
retains an awkward layout that’s dif-
ficult to navigate. This isn’t helped by
a lack of signs and maps as you walk
in. Most museums and art galleries
display their floor plans somewhere
around their entrances, but evidently
the NPG hasn’t thought to do so. Even
the hand-out maps are a challenge to
find (keep walking forwards from the
entrance, and they’re hidden amongst
other leaflets on the ticket desk).
The first thing I went looking for,
I’ll admit, was the cafe. My quest for
caffeination led me on a grand tour
of the museum before finding the cafe
hidden in the lower basement behind
the bookshop (of course?). It’s not for
the claustrophobic – the seating is in a
long narrow area surrounded by con-
crete and bricks, and the only windows
to the outside world are above your
head. But it was impeccably clean,
with the tables being cleared instantly.
The menu was varied and high quality,
though possibly tending to the wanky
side. Goats cheese quiche, anybody?
It wasn’t cheap but they had offers
on breakfast, lunch and afternoon tea
depending on the time. I ordered a
large cappuccino and a piece of coffee
cake. The cappuccino wasn’t my idea
of large, but it came with real flakes of
chocolate on top. My coffee cake was
wankified by mascarpone and some
other equally sloaney ingredient, but it
was good cake nonetheless – light and
fluffy with creamy icing. But putting
mascarpone in the icing did make it
a bit cheesy. It’s not a fucking cheese-
cake, people. It’s a coffee-walnut cake.
Leave it alone!
The National Portrait Gallery and
its permanent collections made for a
thoroughly enjoyable afternoon out.
It was quiet considering it was a half-
term Saturday, and the museum was
generally calming and pleasant to me-
ander through. The main exhibits are
unexpectedly large and varied, with
every famous figure imaginable from
the Tudor era to modern day. The gal-
leries are well laid out (once you’ve
found a map), generally chronological-
ly arranged but incorporating smaller
rooms that focus on certain aspects
of history, for example ‘Romanticism’,
‘Science and Technology’ and ‘from
Revolution to Reform’. This makes it
easy to find the portraits that closest
match your interests: Poetry buffs can
see Keats, Burns, Clare, Wordsworth
and Shelley; Budding scientists can
come face to face with William Harvey,
Robert Boyle, Michael Faraday, Joseph
Lister, Charles Darwin, Sir Alexander
Fleming and T.H. Huxley; and for all
you abundant feminists at Imperial
there’s Mary Wollstonecraft, Emme-
line Pankhurst, Amy Johnson and Vir-
ginia Woolf. There’s somebody for eve-
rybody and I could quite easily go on...
Oh, by the way, the only room I would
NOT recommend was the Diana Prin-
cess of Wales room. It was nauseating.
Let’s get down to business: Pop Art
Portraits. For those who don’t know,
pop art was a visual arts movement
of the mid twentieth century. Largely
American, the movement was inspired
by the international trends towards
mass culture, consumerism and ad-
vertising. Many pop art pieces feature
images of famous people and famous
brands, like Marilyn Monroe and the
Campbell’s soup cans made iconic by
Andy Warhol. Alongside Warhol, fa-
mous names in the movement include
Roy Lichtenstein, Keith Haring, Edu-
ardo Paolozzi and David Hockney. Pop
art generally involves solid blocks of
vivid colour, crisp lines, simple shapes
and plenty of collage. Looking at pop
art is often like looking at a comic
book. It’s funky, kitschy and it targets
the masses.
My press ticket was presented to
me paper-clipped to a smug wadge of
press handouts which included, among
information about events I have no in-
tention of ever attending, a Eduardo
Paolozzi postcard and a Pop Art Por-
traits bookmark. How kind! However,
they didn’t bother to give me the free
guide to the exhibition that everybody
else was walking round with. Due to
this, and the complete lack of informa-
tion provided inside the exhibition it-
self, I was forced to depend on my own
limited art history knowledge and raw
observation to try and figure out what
was going on. I found this difficult.
Some of the works in the exhibition
didn’t seem very pop art-esque, and
some simply weren’t portraits. “Astro-
naut 4” by Gerald Land, for example,
was an oddly shaped creation involving
polkadots and an astronaut’s helmet.
Does that count as a portrait? Equally,
“Trophy V” by Robert Rauschenberg
is a canvas with some grey and cream
paint slapped about, a cardboard box
glued on, and some kind of metal win-
dow through it. Where is the portrait?
And where’s the pop art?
Among the first pieces to be seen as
you enter the exhibition are some very
likable collages by Ray Johnson and
Eduardo Paolozzi, mostly depicting
1950s home scenes. They make you
want to hack up some Good House-
keeping magazines and create your
own funky masterpieces. Later on,
“Man Playing Snooker and Thinking
of Other Things” by Derek Boshier
was another delight: a happy jumble of
bold green background, bright abstract
shapes and the occasional interjection
of words such as “I hate you! (yea you!)”.
The self portrait by Andy Warhol used
in the promotional posters around
London is possibly my favourite in
the exhibition. The flat use of grey
isn’t something you expect from pop
art, but it remains true to the move-
ment with its simple outlines and the
bright green splotches for eyes. I also
loved the ice-creams and milkshakes
positioned in a row in front of a gelati-
nous blob of a naked woman in “Great
American Nude Number #27” by Tom
Wesselman. Another painting worth
seeing is “Interesting Journey” by Al-
len Jones. Had I been given the guide
I might have been able to find out if it
was supposed to be Prince Charles’s
head and three hamburgers, or if it was
just me being over-creative.
There were a couple of different
examples of pop art sculpture includ-
ing one in the last room called “Ghost
Wardrobe for MM” by Claes Olden-
burg. It was string hung off a metal
rail to look like clothing. I didn’t get it.
It looked like a wardrobe, sure, but it
was... string. Once again, neither prop-
er art nor a portrait, and it wasn’t even
nice to look at. In the same room was
“MM” by Richard Smith, some orange
paint streaked across a canvas. I’m not
saying it isn’t art, but it ain’t pop art
and it sure ain’t a portrait. Nearby were
the Marilyn Monroes made famous by
Andy Warhol. They’re iconic but at the
same time they felt overexposed and
cliched to me. Pity, because they’re
big and beautiful with some astound-
ing use of colours, both complemen-
tary and clashing. It was at this point
in the room that it dawned on me that
MM stood for Marilyn Monroe, and
the whole room was of art dedicated
to her. Why not highlight this fact on
some kind of sign?? The best piece
in the room was “Marilyn” by Allan
D’Arcangelo – a cut out and assemble
Marilyn with a pair of metal scissors
hanging off by a string. The crisp lines
and vivid colours were classic pop art,
and the concept was good fun.
When I think of pop art, I think of
Roy Lichtenstein. So I was surprised
to see only one example of his well-
known work, “In the Car”. It wasn’t
even a painting I recognized. Surely
this figurehead of the movement de-
serves more representation in this ma-
jor exhibition? I suspect no other art
institutions (the Tate springs to mind
– they have a few Lichtensteins knock-
ing about) were willing to lend out
their prized possessions to the NPG.
That was a shame. Also, there was one
token David Hockney but it wasn’t a
good one.
Overall I’d say the absence of any an-
notation or written guidance around
the art was the major problem with the
exhibition. All the other major muse-
ums offer such information, and the
NPG did have it in their main galleries,
so I can’t understand the lack in this
case. It definitely lessened my enjoy-
ment of ‘Pop Art Portraits’, so make
sure you nab one before you go in! I
was also disappointed by the selection
of art on offer – some expected favour-
ites were absent and some of the paint-
ings present seemed irrelevant. It didn’t
seem like proper representation of the
theme “Pop Art Portraits”. It certainly
wasn’t much of an introduction to any-
body not already familiar with pop art.
Don’t let me put you off the National
Portrait Gallery in general – I’d recom-
mend it to everybody as a relaxing and
enjoyable afternoon out. Where else
can you rub shoulders with so many
inspirational thinkers of the past and
present? But perhaps Pop Art Portraits
is better left to the art enthusiasts.
Why don’t you pop into the
Pop Art Portrait exhibiton? It’s
on until the 20th January 2008.
Remember to pass on the ‘wanki-
fied’ mascarpone cake. (What a
word, Emily! That’s going in my
vocabulary right now.)
Obviously this is Prince Charles and 3 hamburgers. What else could it
POSSIBLY be?! (Answers on a postcard to the usual address)
INTERESTING JOURNEY BY ALLEN JONES, 1962
© ALLEN JONES
Quite simply, I want this lounge. Especially that spam. And those breasts.
JUST WHAT IS IT THAT MAKES TODAY’S
HOMES SO DIFFERENT, SO APPEALING?
© RICHARD HAMILTON

