14 felix Friday 9 November 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
A nice, warming musical for winter
On a cold winter night, Lucy Harrold warms her cockles with ‘John and Jen’ at the Finborough Theatre
T
he Finborough theatre
is not, I guess your aver-
age theatre. For a start,
it’s nestled in the heart of
Earls Court - only a ten
minute walk from Evelyn Gardens (so
all you people in Halls around there
have no excuse not to go!) - so nowhere
near the West End.
Also, it’s above a pub so there’s an-
other incentive to go. This flummoxed
me the first time I went and so spent
ages walking around the outside of the
pub to find the entrance to the theatre.
The entrance is in fact through the pub
and up a couple of flights of stairs.
And so to the theatre itself. The
upstairs of the theatre is just a single
room with unreserved bench seating
for about fifty people and you’re not al-
lowed to be late, else you’ll find yourself
on the stage. The stage is just the rest of
the room, with the exits being the exit
you went through when you came in.
The theatre itself is a registered char-
ity and strives to put on both plays and
musicals that you won’t find at many
other venues, including rediscovered
and new plays plus old British musicals
and a great series of UK premieres of
smaller off-Broadway productions. It is
from through collection that John&Jen
is being shown for the next two Sun-
days and next Monday.
The writers of Jon&Jen, Andrew Lip-
pa (music) and Tom Greenwald (lyrics)
are really unknowns in Britain unless
you’re me, or you know someone else
that loves off-Broadway musical thea-
tre. No, didn’t think you did. Lippa’s
works include ‘The Wild Party’ (one of
my favourite shows) and the reworking
of ‘You’re a Good Man Charlie Brown’
(a musical about Snoopy and the gang)
and is working on many new projects
that will hopefully some day be seen
here. Greenwald is now a screenwriter
and works for an theatre advertising
company.
John&Jen is about the relationship
between Jen and the two Johns in her
life; her brother and her son. In the
first act, we explore the lives of John
and Jen, brother and sister growing
up in Post-WWII America; a time of
mixed opinions about government, vi-
olence and love. The pair are followed
all the way from John’s birth until early
twenties. It’s not the perfect childhood
either, their father is abusive and Jen
does her best to hide her little brother
from this fact and protect him from
the abuse. The siblings go through the
issues that all siblings go through from
forcing your sibling to play with you
when they don’t want to, to suddenly
just a few years later not wanting to see
them anywhere near you.
Act two is concerned with the rela-
tionship of Jen, now grown up, and her
son John. Obviously, the back-story
from the first act is still relevant and
followed up on in the second act. Jen
goes through many of the emotions
and events she went through in the first
act, thus taking up the opportunity to
show how the decisions we make can
change our lives for better or worse.
Specific scenarios from the first act are
echoed in the second, allowing the au-
dience to compare and contrast. It was
interesting to see the way Jen’s attitude
towards Christmas had changed with
what had happened to her. I loved the
very true to life Dear God, where Jen
moans about her brother embarrass-
ing her at a basketball match and then
Baseball where the second act John
moans about his mother’s actions at
his baseball match in exactly the same
way.
Andrew Lippa’s music fits perfectly
to the mood of the play; it’s childlike
when it needs to be yet mature and
thoughtful at other times, with the
same recurring themes appearing to
remind the audience of previous songs
and episodes. Tom Greenwald’s lyrics
are witty and perceptive, together they
capture the innocence of childhood
and the loss of that innocence.
A lot of responsibility is laid upon
the two actors, as they have to carry
all of the storyline and all of the songs.
Helen Evans and Jon Hawkins manage
this brilliantly. Both actors have to take
their characters from childhood (in
Hawkin’s case, birth) through to being
a fully matured adult, Hawkins doing
this twice for two completely differ-
ent characters. Seeing as some people
can’t manage this in the twenty or so
years they have to grow up, this makes
the task even harder. I fell in love with
Hawkin’s John; his characterisation of
the young boy was so authentic that
it made it all the harder to handle the
tragedy that prevails later in the play.
His voice is amazing (he’s going on
to do the tour of Mamma Mia next;
I think his talent is worth more than
that!) Plus he has these crazy piercing
blue eyes!
Evans’ Jen was so genuine; you could
really see her transformation from
bratty sister, through hippy to loving
and (slightly over)caring mother. The
emotions she has to go through are
immense and Evans copes with these
admirably, her voice did get lost at
some moments, but this just added to
the emotion. The connection between
these two actors both as brother and
sister and mother and son is really be-
lievable, even having to change from
one to the other.
I loved the simplicity and modest
nature of John&Jen, it’s such an hon-
est show. Although the down to earth
aspect to it and the strong and realistic
storyline makes me think of the show
more as a play that happens to have
singing in it. The score and lyrics are
really strong and the two performers
are amazing both vocally and as ac-
tors. The musicians are also on stage:
just a basic electric piano and a single
violinist. Both are played by very tal-
ented musicians. I liked the use of lid-
ded boxes to both set (as moving box-
es, a bed, chairs…) and told hold the
props for the entire show as there are
no wings or off stage space, the way the
moving of these was incorporated into
the action was really clever.
The show leaves you questioning the
decisions you make about yourself and
those around you and about the rela-
tionships you have. Everyone can relate
to at least one of the relationships em-
bodied in the play, everyone has been a
brother, a sister, a mother or a child.
The Finborough theatre is a great lit-
tle theatre, and it’s doing a lot to pro-
mote the off-West End scene which,
lets face it, isn’t doing that great, and
new plays and musicals in general.
Even if you decide that Jon&Jen isn’t
your thing, you should definitely get
yourself along to the Finborough some
time, there’s always a great selection of
material on during the season and they
offer student discounts too. If you’re
ever after somewhere different to go,
try it! You never know, you might en-
joy it!
This gem of a show in that gem
of a theatre is on this Sunday
11th, next Sunday 18th and the
Monday after. That is IT. So get
on it. Go!!
See www.finboroughtheatre.
co.uk for more information.
Scraping the barrel for pictures... What the family might look like
The Finborough Theatre on Finborough Road, just down the way from Earl’s Court tube station
John and Jen is on for two Sunday nights only, so get on your bike!

