music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 9 November 2007
Music
Music Editors – Jenny Gibson and Matty Hoban
Ashes to lashes, from dust to dust
Brixton hasn’t got the best reputation
in the country; in fact, whilst wander-
ing cautiously through the South Lon-
don district, several explosions and
police sirens could be heard. Although
the explosions were (most probably)
fireworks, the thought of gunfire and
street crime came flooding back to me.
Last time I came to Brixton, I was be-
ing chased through the streets wearing
a lab coat. I went to see We Are Scien-
tists, if you are wondering.
This time, however, I was here to see
Ash, the trio from Northern Ireland.
As I entered the academy, I checked
my pockets, and all of my possessions
were still present and accounted for. I
hadn’t been mugged, chased, or threat-
ened, and was lulling myself into a false
sense of security.
Nevertheless, when Ash stepped
onto the stage, and just after the open-
ing riffs to the title track of their lat-
est – and final – album were heard, I
was crushed against the metal barri-
ers separating myself and the band by
mere metres. And by crushed, I mean
suffered severe internal bleeding of the
stomach, lungs and kidneys. Despite
being through some tough times in the
band’s history, most recently involv-
ing the discharge of their pianist and
second guitarist Charlotte Hatherley,
it seems Ash’s fan base remains as die-
hard and as strong in numbers as ever.
To be perfectly honest with you, I
only have Ash’s most recent album,
“Twilight of the Innocents”, which I
acquired after hearing samples from it
at Snow Patrol’s recent O2 Arena gigs,
where Ash were called in as the prime
support act. It was everything I looked
for in an album, and decided very soon
afterwards to go and see them perform
more of their material.
This isn’t to say I haven’t ever heard
some of Ash’s older tracks. As soon as
“Orpheus” kicked into life, I wasn’t the
only one leaping against the barriers –
the entire building burst into ecstasy
as the thundering bass line and heavy
duty drum work lay down the foun-
dations for frontman Tim Wheeler’s
excellent winding guitar and soaring
vocals.
Another seemingly-legendary track
– by the fans’ standards, at least – was
“Kung Fu”, which was as intense as the
martial art it is named after. On sev-
eral of the songs, including this one,
the band wisely and very pleasingly ex-
tended the instrumental section, giving
the crowd a little more mosh for their
money. Even the marginally slower
tracks, including “Shining Light”, were
still far more of an adrenaline rush than
your average indie band garble.
Of course, Ash is not an indie band.
They might have been once, but as
most indie bands nowadays are not
allowed to be called ‘indie’ unless less
Golden oldies Ash are running up against the eye-candy of the new lady on the block, Bat For Lashes in this
week’s music section. Ash come out favourably however, managing to get five truly coveted Felix stars
Knowing Bat For Lashes’ deep fasci-
nation with whatever falls in between
dreams, the subconscious and spir-
itualism, it was no surprise to walk
into Koko’s richly opulent interior and
seeing the stage looking like it had
been decorated by Tim Burton’s set
designer. With glittering, golden trees
adorning strange symbols, an inky
black curtain holding up twinkling
fairy lights and a full moon displaying
starchy Native American projections,
you wouldn’t be blamed for thinking
that you had stepped into some kind of
pagan ritual.
Looking like forest nymphs, the
musicians walked on stage as Natasha
Kahn opened her set with a whispery
French incantation that silenced an al-
ready highly attentive crowd – one that
cheered uproariously as the pulsing
bass to the gorgeous “Trophy” kicks in.
It was a bewitching experience: Lizzy
Carey and Abi Fry were perfect on
their violas, the string section was rich
against the subtle gusts of the brass
while Caroline Weeks’ guitar gurgled
under Kahn’s breathy vocals. “I Saw A
Light” almost became an early high-
light as it demonstrated Kahn’s emo-
tive, Björk-esque wails over a rousing
crescendo.
Apart from a strangely hollowed
rendition of “What’s A Girl To Do?” in
which its deeper sounds were replaced
by weak synth washes, nearly every
track sounded better than their album
counterpart. This is especially true of
“Sarah” – a maudlin track on record,
but reduced to a minimalist nightmare
as Kahn beats the floor with a totem
pole (“My beautiful new stick!”) to give
a vicious beat against a disjointed and
screeching electric guitar.
The best performance, however, was
a cover of Tom Waits’ “Lonely”. Origi-
nally a low key piano track from when
his voice didn’t sound like a forty-fags-
a-day growl, it was given a full orches-
tral arrangement replete with string
swells, blasts of French horns and a
stunning flute arrangement that was
seemingly pulled out of Kahn’s bot-
tomless magician’s hat.
Throughout, she remained a per-
fectly welcoming hostess, making con-
versation with the crowd and inviting
supporting act Spleen back on stage
to provide beat-boxing duties on one
of the tracks (to a distractingly disap-
pointing effect it has to be said – either
his mike was too low, or it was a really
half-arsed effort). The atmosphere was
kept at a lightly eerie tone and amid her
nocturnal ballads (and especially when
she invited the crowd to howl at the
moon), you can’t help thinking that if
everyone in the audience was dressed
up, this would have been one hell of a
surreal Halloween party.
Jorge Costa
Ash
Brixton Academy
★★★★★
Live Review
than one thousand people have heard
of them, Ash’s sizeable fan base clearly
removes them from this ridiculous cat-
egory and puts them squarely in the
ambiguous ‘alternative rock’ section.
Perhaps this is why I am such a fan of
their latest album as opposed to “1977”
or “Free All Angels”. Every track they
performed before my melting eyes
from their collection of older LPs were
storming, thundering, explosive, pow-
erful, and of course, incredibly memo-
rable. Still, there is something about
their most recent album which puts it
up their next to the best in alternative
rock.
Despite not playing “Princess Six” – a
tale of love lost in a metaphor of royal-
ty, accompanied by a sparky lead guitar
– all of their best tracks from Twilight
of the Innocents were played amidst
the smorgasbord of old singles and
long-time fan favourites. “You Can’t
Have It All”, which contains arguably
one of the best bass tracks of recent
times, debuted first, and heads were
simultaneously banging away. “Black-
listed and Ritual” soon followed, both
of which allowed a mix of Wheeler’s
vocals and the brilliant drumming of
Rick McMurray to produce the mini-
ature epics. Of course, this was but a
taster of what was to follow.
“Polaris”, a song seemingly about war,
has a string section sample accompany-
ing another excellent bass line by Mark
Hamilton and of course the superb
guitar riffs of Wheeler. With the darker
subject matter and the amazingly har-
monious instrumentality produced by
the trio, this track could easily be part
of a thought-provoking motion picture
soundtrack. Nevertheless, even this is
dwarfed by the sheer scope of the titu-
lar track, which uses string, piano and
glockenspiel samples, along with Ash’s
trinity of extremely talented musicians,
to convey such an epic composition
it sounds as if it should belong to the
climax of piece of cinematic genius.
The song appears to tell the story of a
person trapped in a post-apocalyptic
world and how he seems to be dealing
with both the conflict across the plan-
et and the internal conflicts he faces
within himself.
The introspective lyrics and stunning
vocals, along with an utterly jaw-drop-
ping, emotive orchestral theme and the
repeated lyric “I’m still breathing; my
heart’s still beating” allows the track to
exude a sense of both mystery and epic
Bat For Lashes
Koko
★★★★✩
Live Review
ROBIN ANDREWS
grandeur, and is personally one of my
favourite songs of all time.
Interestingly enough, the track’s lyri-
cal content appears to share stark simi-
larities with the central character from
Neon Genesis Evangelion, the most
influential and critically-acclaimed
anime series ever made. Being a huge
fan of this particular series and of Ash,
this meant I had very high expecta-
tions when it came to this particular
track. Performed live, it connected the
audience to the band and each other in
a way few other songs can. I was not
disappointed in the slightest.
Ending the gig with both new and
old – the quietly spectacular End of
the World and the mosh-pit inducing
“Burn Baby Burn”, respectively – Ash
gave their fans everything they wanted,
and by the looks on their faces, the re-
ception they received was worth all the
blood, sweat and tears that had gone
into their latest musical offering.
Do yourself a favour: when Ash next
comes to visit your hometown, go and
bathe yourself in the “Twilight”. They
may tell you that “You Can’t Have It
All”, but in some cases such as this, it is
very clear that with Ash, you can.
Robin Andrews
Ash looking all pretty somehow in incredibly clashing colours. Explanations to the usual address please

