film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
17
Friday 9 November 2007 felix
Lions For Lambs purrs for thought
Lions For Lambs is hardly the beast its
title lays claims to. A slickly edited real
time drama with three loosely related
threads spanning the globe, it sounds
like an episode of 24 but with the is-
sues at hand discussed through theat-
rical dialogue, not the messianic Jack
Bauer. Add the heavyweight cast of
Meryl Streep, Robert Redford and Tom
Cruise to serve as conduits for a sharp
battle of wits over the “War on Terror”
and political punch is assured, yet Li-
ons never reaches a fulfilling roar.
Whilst not a simple exercise in flag-
waving, Lions seems very much like an
American product aimed at an Ameri-
can audience, probing the effect of
a foreign war on home soil. Redford
plays a professor trying to inspire a dis-
illusioned student to overcome his po-
litical apathy whilst Streep and Cruise
face off as a journalist and smooth
talking senator discussing a new at-
tack strategy in Afghanistan. The plan
of attack itself becomes the third story,
as two young soldiers struggle to stay
alive fighting for a country that, hither-
to, hasn’t treated them with the respect
they deserve.
The effect of the Vietnam War was
only visible as an aftershock for cine-
ma, with the subject matter it provided
only finding its way into film years
after the conflict itself was over. Crit-
ics said it came too late, and now, six
years since the “War on Terror” was
declared, come its effects on screen.
With the ending still unbeknownst to
us, the direction to take seems an odd
one. The routes of condemnation ver-
sus absolution intertwine without an
end point to measure the justification
of the means, and leave Lions posing a
lot of questions it can’t answer.
That said, many of the points raised
in Lions resonate beyond a purely cin-
ematic experience. “Do you want to
win the war on terror?” asks Cruise’s
senator, enlisting a dubious response
that belies the simplistic yes-no answer
he wants. Redford’s strand analyses the
middle-class youth’s reaction to war,
a very different one to the activism of
Robert Redford’s political debate gives plenty of material for discussion but ends in an overblown dead-heat
students in the Sixties and exposes a sit-
back mentality that prevents change,
yet without exploring the reasons for
such lethargy. Streep, meanwhile, is the
voice of media ethics, one of many who
in the post-9/11 shellshock supported
this war which hindsight seems to view
so abhorrently. To what extent did the
saturated sensationalist reports fed to
a broken country fuel its thirst for re-
venge? And in Afghanistan, why is it
that young people on the edge of soci-
ety fight for a country that has not giv-
en them their dues, whilst the spoiled
bourgeoisie sit back and criticise?
These ideas are conveyed with the
subtlety of Paul Haggis’ Crash, the
same subtlety America is renowned
for. The hidden meaning here is about
as covered up as Britney Spears stum-
bling into a taxi, yet the impact is not
significantly lessened for it. All three
actors are finely equipped to deal with
their parts, yet no-one seems to get
stretched at any point. Dialogue re-
places dramatics and despite Cruise
getting crazier by the day, he can still
pull off great performances, and this
one, oddly reminiscent of his superior
turn in Magnolia, stands well against
the other two Goliaths.
The philosophy of Lions is its strong-
est tick box though and, with Redford
Alex Casey
Film Editor
GETTING
YOUR
FUTURE’S
CLOSER.
jpmorgan.com/careers
JPMorgan is a marketing name of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries worldwide. ©2007 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved. JPMorgan is an equal opportunities employer.
The deadline for Graduate applications is November 18, 2007.
The clock’s ticking. But there’s still time to get your application in.
And the career you’ve always wanted. This is where you need to be.
directing, the focus is not often re-
moved from the issues at hand. One
line in particular refuses to diminish:
“What have we been doing for the last
six years, Senator? World War II took
less than five.” Who knew that Amer-
ica was capable of being so self-aware,
nevermind self-critical? Lions may not
answer its own questions, but it cer-
tainly gets you thinking.
Lions For Lambs ★★★✫✫
Director: Robert Redford
Writer: Matthew Michael
Carnahan
Cast: Robert Redford,
Tom Cruise,
Meryl Streep
MFI brought in some big names to sell their latest showroom

