union.ic.ac.uk/mosaic
20 felix Friday 9 November 2007
Media
Produced by the members of mosaic
rent affairs shows (we have stoic news
bulletins as well, every week) we make
wacky light entertainment, philosophi-
cal short films, and lots more!
If you want to get involved, in
front or behind the camera, just
email us at info@stoictv.com.
Ask the Union President
This week stoic tv tells us about the show which puts the Union President the hot
seat, in front of television cameras and on the receiving end of your questions
Lia Han
Head of Publicity
I
C you want my Radio
Salutations! Welcome to the
first edition of IC Radio’s Felix
column. We’re going against the
grain,doingtheol’reacharound,
and putting pen to paper (rather than
sound to ear) to bring you the latest IC
Radio news. There are as many ways to
get into Radio as there are into Court-
ney Love’s Hole, so don’t shy away if
you have some horrific speech impedi-
ment or the only piece of music you’ve
heard is Tubular Bells. If you fancy
doing a show (music, banter, news,
confessional, Dr Love, Dr Death Ship-
man, etc), learning how sound produc-
tion is done (fuzzyfelt and sticklebacks
mostly) or being some big clever hella-
mashup DJ then we are now your best
friends!
Our Radio Committee, this year, are
sacrificing their academic year to make
IC Radio the best it can be. Seriously,
watch me fail my exams to bring you
top comedic guests, pop bands who’ll
shake what their mothers gave them
for 2p and a humungous amount of
promo CDs! We’re also planning trips
to radio stations in London, as well as
getting the best DJs to come down and
give DJ skills sessions.
And for reference, I’m Lia, Head of
Publicity, DJ Kitty Mao (will do Christ-
mas parties for food) and co-host of
Car Crash Radio (Mondays at 5. Alive...
they were nice drinks weren’t they?).
I’m here to harass famous people and
big corporations for YOU! Possibly
simultaneously wearing my big fluffy
velveteen headphones. MMM...snug.
Visit us at www.icradio.com to soak
up a sample of our sweet nectar (or ear
sex if tuning in after 9) and to find out
more about getting involved!
T
he story so far: in March
this year, in what is his-
torically termed an ‘elec-
tion’, five people were
nominated as sabbaticals
to run Imperial College Union. Since
the start of August they’ve been paid to
represent you to the College and to the
wider world, and to run Union services
– the bars, the events, student support,
and facilities for all those clubs and
societies.
One of these, the editor of this es-
teemed publication, is of course be-
yond reproach. Another – who is in
charge of the whole lot – is Stephen
Brown, the Union President.
Now, you may believe the Union is a
perfect entity, a shining idyll of perfec-
tion in a world of disorder and distress
(in which case you might want to know
how they manage this!) Or, possibly
more likely, there may be something
that even slightly concerns you… from
drink prices in Da Vinci’s to the system
of governance, from how the Union is
spending its money, to its position on
top-up fees or the NUS. Is the Union
providing enough facilities, and the
right ones? Are you a club member
worried about how your club is run, or
a committee member worried about
running a club? Or are you having
problems with any part of the College
– Residences, the Registry, or seeming-
ly random regulations - that you think
the Union should be pushing to have
sorted out?
If only there was a way that the presi-
dent, Stephen Brown could know your
problems – and, to let students across
Imperial know what could be done
to get them solved. Well, fortunately
there is - quite simply, you can Ask The
President.
Each month, stoic tv puts your ques-
tions to the President of the Union, and
letstheworldheartheresponses.Send-
ing in your question is easy: just email
it to askthepresident@stoictv.com. For
this edition of Ask The President, we’ll
need your questions by this Monday,
12 November. Then, on Thursday,
you’ll be able to view the programme
in the JCR and, as with all our other
shows, you can watch online at www.
stoictv.com, or on the stoic tv channel
on iTunes. So: you’ll hear your ques-
The Union President doing publicity for his election campaign last year. Now’s your chance to grill him
tion answered, find out what the Presi-
dent can do about it, and who knows,
the Union may get that one step closer
to perfection, thanks to you.
Ask The President is one of several
stoic tv shows in production, shot
from our studio in the West Basement
of Beit Quad. As well as newsy cur-
I had sex with a famous pornstar last night
No I didn’t. Well, I did, but this article
is actually about taking photos in the
dark.
So you’ve bought some crappy cam-
era and want to take pretty pictures
with it. Unfortunately, there isn’t
enough space on this page to teach
you that, so I’ll stick to trying to teach
you to take bearable-to-decent photos
(face it, you’ll never be as good as me
anyway).
The biggest misconception about
taking photos in low light is about the
use of a flash. You do not want to be
using it most of the time. First of all,
it will blind the pornstar, and second
of all, it will give your subject a deer-
in-the-headlights look, I guarantee it.
The first thing that one can do is turn
the ISO up, but this can both help and
make the photo worse. If it’s starting to
get dark and you cannot handhold to
take a photo, you can bump the ISO up
a bit which will help with your shaky
hands. Mind you, putting the ISO too
high will make your photos way more
grainy than is acceptable, so one must
find a balance.
If you do not have a flash that you
can detach from your camera (i.e. you
have a shitty point-and-shoot camera
that you got ripped off for in Jessops)
there is not much you can do with it.
You can either switch it off, or set your
camera to slow flash. This will make
your camera take a photo where the
background is exposed correctly (i.e.
not pitch black), and use flash at the
same time to light up the hot chick in
the foreground.
Whether you want your flash off or
on will obviously depend on the situ-
ation. If you are taking a photo of any-
thing more than 3 metres away from
you, flash is (mostly) useless. When-
ever you’re watching the best football
team ever (Chelsea) playing, for exam-
ple, you will see thousands of flashes
going off in the stands every second.
Do they honestly think that their puny
little flash will reach five billion miles
to light up Sir Abramovich? You don’t
see those guys with lenses as big as my
dick (or Rob’s) using a flash, and they
are behind the advertising boards,
pretty close to the action.
What they do use, though, are mo-
nopods. Monopods and tripods are
one of the most essential things for a
pornographer. Lens, camera, photog-
rapher, tripod. In that order.
Contrary to popular belief, a tripod is
much more important than a flash. As
an example, it allows you to take mas-
terpieces such as the one on the right.
Any landscape work that you do after
dusk will require a tripod, I guaranee
it. Obviously, it doesn’t make sense to
carry a tripod with you at all times (es-
pecially if you have a small point-and-
shoot), but a tripod doesn’t have to be
a tripod to be a tripod, know what I’m
saying? Any substitute can be used,
from buildings to benches to my Fer-
rari. For those of you who have banged
enough pornstars to afford a DSLR and
Felix Office Pornographer
Coitus beautifultalis am Londonis Eyus
can control the exposure, don’t forget
to underexpose by half a stop. And
don’t forget to use a timer, as your fat
pudgy little fingers will shake the cam-
era when you press the shutter release.
Now I am off for my lunch appoint-
ment with Ron Jeremy. I hope that to-
day’s lesson will come in handy.

