the finches and tortoises) that Darwin
realised differing environments were
the cause; so we were missing out on
the full Darwinian experience.
It was still well worth going, though.
The wildlife is, of course, amazing.
Iridescent birds with names like the
Blue-footed Boobies were a highlight,
but my favourite animals were the tor-
toises themselves. Prehistoric in ap-
pearance, these giant brutes were many
times bigger than any tortoises I had
ever previously seen. Quirks of nature
such as a lagoon that turns pink for half
the year were fascinating and another
highlight of our trip was horseback rid-
ing up to a recently erupted volcano’s
crater. After the effort of getting our
horses to do anything at all we made
steady progress upwards. Eventually,
we stumbled onto a scene of rolling
mists that seemed to cascade into the
crater like a waterfall of clouds.
We already knew a little of the evolu-
tionary aspect of the islands’ historical
significance but we were also interest-
ed to discover that a few of the larger
islands had also been used as penal
colonies for mainland criminals. The
prisoners were, at one point, ordered
to erect a huge wall, ironically, for the
sole purpose of keeping themselves en-
closed. Many died during the struggle
and the incomplete wall still stands on
the island of Isabella, as a testament to
their efforts.
One thing that particularly shocked
us was the sheer number of people on
the islands. We had expected a mini-
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
23
Friday 9 November 2007 felix
The Galapagos Islands
As if being the inspiration for Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution wasn’t enough,
these glorious, spectacular islands have even more to offer the intrepid traveller
Ahran Arnold
Travel Editor
The Galápagos Islands, officially
known as the “Archipiélago de Colón,”
are a cluster of volcanic islands distrib-
uted around the equator about 1000km
west of Ecuador. Rich in history, scen-
ery, wildlife and culture, the ‘enchanted
islands’ are a popular tourist destina-
tion and a must-see for any traveller to
South America with a few days to spare.
They are, perhaps, best known for two
reasons. Firstly, the many endemic spe-
cies, most notable of all- the Galápagos
Tortoise. The second reason, related to
the first, is the role the islands’ wildlife
played in the development of Charles
Darwin’s theory of evolution.
Strachan Mackenzie (also known as
‘slow Strachan’ or the ‘lesser-spotted,
dim-witted Strachan’), whom you may
remember from the guinea pig article
in this section two weeks ago, accom-
panied me to these islands earlier this
year. We had originally decided that a
visit to the islands would be out of our
price range but changed our minds
when we heard the rave reviews of
returning travellers whilst staying in
Quito, Ecuador. The prices are main-
tained at a high level due to a monopo-
lising flight company, with sole rights
The Galapagos Tortoise: It looks like some thing prehistoric man would do battle with
“He went
out and got
‘wasted’ on what
sounded like
an epic bender
in the streets
of Ecuador’s
capital”
“Iridescent birds
with names like
the Blue-footed
Boobie were a
highlight”
T
he title of this article could
be mistaken for a short
piece about the loss of a
favoured member of the
family and its inevitable
psychological impact upon my travels
along the silk route where, after much
contemplation, I found myself. Instead
it is a hastily written ramble about jour-
neys that I could be bothered to make,
to areas that are not in themselves spe-
cial or interesting. Think of it, if you
will, as the kind of long message you
would happen about on Facebook, dis-
miss immediately, and forget about.
This week I would like to take you
back in time. This is regrettably be-
yond my powers, so I will take you- if
I may- to Chingford. Nestled between
Epping Forest and areas without for-
est, it is not easily accessible by tube
but boasts higher than average levels
of chavs and squirrels- not necessarily
in that order.
During the notorious “nuts riots”
of the late 1980’s, it rose to top of the
news agenda on BBC London North as
the deaths of over 230 common grey
squirrels and 47 chavs where recorded,
when stores of acorns and shoddily
written magazines were mistakenly
destroyed to make way for, what many
said was a somewhat premature, Diana
memorial.
It is not widely known that the former
Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith
MP works tirelessly for Chingford- in-
deed it is more widely known and gen-
erally accepted that he does not. De-
spite this, you will be pleased to know
that Chingford has recently undergone
something of a renaissance. Street café
culture is now chic. On a summer’s
day, many tattooed gentlemen and less
gentle-women may be found sipping
alcopops outside any number of bis-
tros and bars. For example, the newly
opened “BarBistro” caters for most of
the needs of the local clientele.
Bisecting Chingford runs the Green-
wich Meridian Line, marked by a strik-
ing granite obelisk. Unfortunately, due
to general incompetence, the obelisk
was positioned a depressing 5 metres
away from the actual meridian and
thus a slab of graffiti-covered concrete
now informs local doggers of its exact
position.
If you want more proof of the signifi-
cance of Chingford, simply haul your
great heaving mass over to a library
computer and look at David Beckham’s
© page on Wikipedia and (if I have edit-
ed Wikipedia in time) you will see that
it was on the playing fields of Ridge-
way Park in Chingford that he trained
for many of his formative years. He
was also educated at Chingford High
School, but let’s not hold that against
Chingford.
“But what is at the heart of Ching-
ford?” I hear you whine, “Why do you
care about Chingford?” -others moan.
The truth of the matter is that Ching-
ford is not really an unintelligent rab-
ble of humanity but more of an old
friend, a friend who you suspect killed
your cat when you were 8, but who you
decide you go with a drink with none
the less because you never really liked
your cat anyway.
Travels
without
my aunt
Theo Georgiou-Delisle
Finches: Darwin’s inspiration
to Galápagos access by air.
One of the particularly rave reviews
we had came from a strange Canadian
fellow who we met in our hostel. His
story is worth relating even though it
has nothing to do with our jaunt to the
islands. The Canadian’s brother had
been living in Quito for a number of
years and had managed to get a local
girl, whom he had been briefly seeing,
pregnant. Woe was him. He decided to
do the ‘honourable thing’ and marry
the girl. As the wedding approached
his doubts intensified. Things reached
a head when the father of the bride
told him he would have to provide not
only for the wife but also for the rest
of the, extremely large, extended fam-
ily! The day before the wedding, disil-
lusioned and anxious, he went out and
got ‘wasted’ on what sounded like an
epic bender in the streets of Ecuador’s
capital. In the process he was arrested
and spent the night in a South Ameri-
can jail (not a nice place to be, appar-
ently). So the wedding was called off
for the time being. Instead of comfort-
ing his ill-fated brother or trying to
sort the situation out, the groom-to-
be’s brother, whom we were speaking
to, decided to immediately rent a car
and depart on a road trip around Ec-
uador. It sounded like the setting to a
bad American teen movie, but it was in
fact the truth. Either way his insensi-
tive decision benefited us as it inspired
us to make our own impromptu trip to
the Galápagos Islands.
There are two ways of experienc-
ing the islands, and both involve boat
travel, but to varying degrees. It is pos-
sible (for an extra $1000) to sleep on a
boat which travels between the islands
at night, but we opted for the more
modestly priced two-island tour which
involves staying on the islands them-
selves. This did mean we did not, real-
ly, get to see the full diversity of Galap-
gos wildlife. This was rather irritating
since it was while observing differ-
ences in the various species (especially
mal population of perhaps a thousand
people at most, so we were surprised to
find bustling town centres and a popu-
lation of 30,000. The islands’ culture
was incredibly laid-back. Nowhere in
South America do things run on time,
but this was especially true on these
islands. People were very friendly and
there was great community spirit and
pride.
There are, of course, downsides to
having a human population on the is-
lands- the environment and resources
are constantly under strain. The other
problem is the tourists- not all the
tourists, many of whom are very pleas-
ant. The problem lies with the hordes
of American school kids infesting the
hotels and generally causing all sorts
of consternation to the soundtrack of
High School: The Musical.
We only spent five days on the islands
but it was worth every penny and if you
can stretch yourself to afford it, it’s an
unforgettable experience. There is a
‘student’ Galápagos near the south of
Ecuador, which is cheaper. This island
has none of the history and culture
of the real Galápagos and only some
of the wildlife, but is an option of the
traveller on a shoe-string budget.

