games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 9 November 2007
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
I
thought we’d do nicely with
a cool-down after last week’s
review of a pretty high profile
title.
“What?”, you ask. “You’re con-
sidering the likes of the great Half-Life
2: Episode Two, second son of Half-Life
2, the true descendant of Half-Life....
unworthy?”
Don’t get me wrong. Half-Life was
an awesome game when it came out,
as was the second iteration. However,
it’ all too obvious that the whole epi-
sodic content concept is leading to an
increasingly shallower pool of quality.
Valve messed around a little bit too
much with their anticipated Episode
Two and are now suffering burns from
the acid tongue of the one and only
Angry Geek.
That’s an example of a rather large
(and quite famous) development stu-
dio messing up – poor form really. In
that sense it’s quite harsh to launch
into tirades against games created by
smaller teams or even the solitary yet
passionate code monkey. The thing is,
these games – often no more than ex-
periments – are usually of higher qual-
ity than those with literally million-
dollar budgets. That’s why it’s more
embarrassing for Episode Two since it
faces off against a set of games that in-
dividually rival the very tenets that the
series holds dear.
We have a game that utilises an Ar-
tificial Intelligence system that’s often
eerie in the way it brings characters
to life. Their dialogue naturally adapts
to your responses and you may well
spend more than a few uncomfortable
moments wondering if you’re actually
playing alone. Half-Life 2 may have re-
alised Alyx through nuanced anima-
tion, but for a Flash-based game to
evoke similar human emotions is quite
astounding.
In 2004, Valve awed the gaming com-
munity by actually offering a physics
engine that was robust and actually
consequential to your gameplay expe-
rience. The Gravity Gun has definitely
taken its place in the annals of gaming
history alongisde the chainsaw and as-
sault rifle. However, one game dares to
try better. It involves a yellow little ar-
madillo, lots of empty white space and
simply your imagination. Adhering to
the laws of physics you need to help
manipulate various objects to lead the
little critter to safety. The game plays
like the natural progression of the likes
of “The Incredible Machine” – and we
all know how prescient that game was.
Despite being a very indie game, Ar-
madillo Run has rightfully been lath-
ered in universal plaudit.
Lastly, we see what can only be the
closest thing to pen-and-paper Dun-
geons-and-Dragons; bloom lighting
need not apply. With graphics easily
surpassed by a 5-year old using MS-
Paint whilst trying to swat a fly on
the monitor with the mouse cursor,
the Dwarf game (I refused to type the
whoe name again) will send RPG afi-
cionados into a Frenzy +2 while every-
one else (about 99% of us) goes back to
running amuck in Oblivion.
This
Week
One-eighth the dosage
The future of WoW? Can you end the façade?
The Battle of the Geeks Run little Armadillo, run
The Angry Geek does what he does best after getting run over by Episode Two
T
he problem with celebrat-
ed developers is that they
get fat. Fat and compla-
cent. They get so close
to their work that each
individual, minuscule change seems
to them to be a world-altering master-
piece. And this is where Valve manage
to take a work of considerable merit –
Half-Life 2 – and put it into a blender
with a collection of the finest animal
excrement. Half-Life 2, Episode Two, is
depressingly bad.
You see, Episode Two had to do a lot
– it not only had to show that Valve
could still do what they were made fa-
mous for doing, but it had to work from
a lacklustre Episode One and build on
it to create something approaching
suspense for the grand finale of Epi-
sode Three.
Yeah, right.
There are some nice moments in Epi-
sode Two, and I’m going to list them all
for you, right now: finding the crowbar.
The room with the larvae in. D0g’s re-
appearance. That’s it. Episode Two has
some fun moments in it, but that’s all I
took away from it as worth mentioning
to others.
Whereas Episode One’s problem was
a combination of length and necessary
exposition, Episode Two’s problem is
gameplay. The thing is broken, and it’s
broken very badly. Episode One was
alright for people like me – a fair deal
of momentum once you’d left the Cita-
del, some nice urban bits, and a sense
of chase. Episode Two, by contrast, has
no momentum whatsoever.
And where Episode One cherryp-
icked things that genuinely worked in
Half-Life 2 – things like actual co-op-
eration with AI characters (c.f. running
through the station in the dark with
Alyx) and the feeling of being in a real
rebellion (that is to say, NOT like the
ridiculously sparse Sand Trap chapter
in the original) – Episode Two seems
hell bent on choosing the very worst
things and cramming them together.
Firstly – no-one can make under-
ground caverns interesting. They’re
squelchy tubes. Everything looks the
same, and it’s dark. It’s the setting for
the most boring of all game events, and
not even Valve could save it. The de-
signers’ obvious fixation with the beau-
tiful larva-catching moment ended up
forcing the player to drag through an
hour of mindless, samey crap, replete
with the most backwards boss fight in
all of gaming. Not good. At all.
Then we emerge, having healed the
useless woman that’s taken the place of
feisty, helpful, Episode One Alyx, into
Generic Forestland where the ‘sup-
porting’ characters proceed to give
every inane task to Gordon. You can
have characters joke about repetitive
design precisely once, Valve. Doing it
every time makes me want to punch
someone. And for god’s sake – the
seesaw bridge? It’s not even a physics
puzzle – I knocked three cars off and
the thing didn’t move an inch. Then I
move the final car and I’m catapaulted
across the asphalt like a gnome from a
missile silo.
Deep breaths. Calm blue ocean. Yes.
Then we have the car section.
Let me make one thing abundantly
clear – I hate the car sections in Half-
Life. The only things I hate more than
car sections, are car sections with Alyx
quipping alongside me. It handles ap-
pallingly, and the only way of getting it
unstuck is to use the gravity gun, which
takes a year and a day.
And everything just begins to break
down then – there are resistance
corpses quite literally everywhere. I
saw more dead resistance members
than I did Combine troops in Episode
Two, which makes me really begin to
question how effective these chaps are
at fighting a rebellion. Not that it took
long to find a solution, of course, as I
stopped in at the Last Chance Garage
to get my car fixed up only to find my-
self being thrown out onto another
suicide mission while someone has sex
with Alyx for me. Yeah, cheers guys. I’ll
leave the six-man armed squad inside
to pimp my ride while I crawl through
zombie parts to take out a platoon of
Combine soldiers. Fantastic.
It just gets worse. D0g appears, only
to do one cool thing and then fuck off
into obscurity again, and then we go
into Very Boring Exposition. This has
become Valve’s trademark. I initially
loved VBE, until they began using it
all the sodding time. VBE is different
from normal exposition, because you
tend to be locked in a room and unable
to escape from it. You can run away,
of course – meaning you miss most of
what’s going on – and no-one gives a
toss. But you’re never allowed to, you
know, just get on with things.
But that’s okay, because there’s a
cracking finale set up. Oh boy. I can’t
wait. It’s gonna be great. Here we go.
If you asked me to name the three
honest-to-christ awful parts of Half-
Life 2, the list would go like this:
1. The car sections.
2. The defence bit in Nova Prospekt
with the ridiculous guns.
3. Any puzzle involving projectiles.
Now, I don’t know if I’m entirely
alone in this, but even so I find it
hard to believe that Valve managed to
choose all three of these and combine
them into one set-piece. It’s impres-
sive. The idea of driving around in the
vehicular equivalent of those rubber
bouncy balls you buy in toy shops, fir-
ing pea-sized marbles at a ten-pixel-
wide square that’s four hundred feet
away, and having to do this whilst un-
der heavy fire and within a time limit,
whilst the world’s most inefficient re-
sistance fighters gawp at you, is just so
unappealing. I mean, how did this even
get as far as playtesting. Really.
Naturally, it’s impossible to die be-
cause you’ve having medkits rammed
up your arse everywhere you go, but by
Christ the thing just never ends. Pick
up ball. Put ball on car. Drive to Strider.
Attempt to kill Hunters. Pick up ball
only to find there’s one you’ve missed,
or other hunters have appeared from
elsewhere, or you’re not actually that
proficient at a skill you learned four
minutes ago. Drive back to ridiculous
buildings full of supplies. Repeat.
Jesus. Christ. This isn’t even ap-
proaching epic. Even the ‘open’ envi-
ronment seemed horribly manufac-
tured to provide obstacles. It smacks of
that ridiculous minigame in Final Fan-
tasy VII, but even Square didn’t have
the gall to put it as part of the main
game. I mean, fuck me. Fourteen strid-
ers? Fourteen of the shits? Was that
really the number required to provide
enough of an experience?
And then to top it all off, we get the
most rushed plot twist I’ve ever seen,
involving a character I really could
care less about. In fact, apart from D0g
I don’t really care about any of them
any more. The minor humans are far
more appealing to me, as are the Vorti-
gaunts. And to me, that says that Valve
are beginning to falter.
I think that’s enough. There are
graphical glitches, poor event trig-
gers, level design slips here or there,
but nothing to top the massive, dick-
shaped ideas that litter what should’ve
been a new flavour of Half-Life. Epi-
sode Three had better be fucking awe-
some. But given there was no trailer at
the end of this incarnation, I can only
assume we’ll be waiting some time to
find out.
Review
Heeeeere’s Genny!

