games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
Friday 9 November 2007 felix
Games
If bedroom coding is still alive, who’s doing it? We find some of the more popular breakout hits
What goes on between the sheets
Slaves to Armok: The God of Blood : Chapter Two – Dwarf Fortress
Spectral lighting and per-pixel shaders not yet implemented.
So... You’re having a laugh, right?
It might have the most offputting name
in gaming history, but make no mis-
take – Dwarf Fortress is the master of
cult gaming. Bay 12 Games is about to
go full time developing the game, such
is its fame, and the fanbase is hugely
dedicated and helpful.
Fanbase can go get stuffed. Why
will I want to play it?
You might not. It’s easily the most
complicated game we’ve ever played –
and we’ve played Republic – but if you
can get hooked on it, you’re unlikely
to turn back to lesser games for many
years.
You select, or have randomly gener-
ated, a team of dwarves, and set about
carving your own piece of paradise out
of the hostile, procedurally-generated
environment. Seasons change, the
world grows, and you wonder why you
ever liked World of Warcraft.
So when can I expect the XBox
360 version, then?
Obviously, its ASCII-stylings and RPG-
heavy gameplay, not to mention its
fairly irritating control system, means
that Dwarf Fortress isn’t designed for
the mainstream. But there are a lot of
people out there who have fallen in
love with it, and its simplicity in design
gives it a great depth and longetivity in
playing.
The future of the project, discussed
on its official website, promises quests,
nations, gods, armies, epic stories –
and all procesdurally generated and
unique to you.
http://www.bay12games.com
Façade – A One Act Interactive Drama
‘Interactive Drama’?
We realise this sounds like an uncom-
fortable sex education lesson from Year
Nine, but Facade is easily the most im-
pressive game we’ve played in the ages.
The most impressive game, hands-
down, and the most promising.
Do I need to read The Guardian to
like it?
Facade isn’t some intellectual thought
experiment – it’s a gripping example
of what artificial intelligence means for
the future of gaming, and exhibits the
ingenuity and skill of today’s ‘bedroom
coders’.
You play yourself, more or less, vis-
iting two old friends of yours in their
apartment – Grace and Trip. Only
Grace and Trip’s relationship seems
a little shaky right now, and you get
the uncomfortable feeling it’s about
to blow up in your face. Can you save
their marriage?
What if I don’t want to?
Then don’t. The idea behind Facade is
that you use language to discuss with
the two characters – answer their
Armadillo Run is fun
What the hell is that.
Armadillo Run represents one of the
recurring themes in indie games devel-
opment – craziness. And physics. One
armadillo, one infinite white expanse,
one source of gravity, and the equiva-
lent of a box of meccano. Can you save
him?
Or, more pressingly, how far can you
ping him with just a piece of elastic and
a two-by-four?
It looks needlessly complicated.
It’s actually quite tactile. The world has
tiny holes in it that you can attach vari-
ous things to, including metal sheets,
cloth, rope, girders – and then adjust
properties like their elasticity or bind-
ing strength.
A few tweaks here or there, some
cackling like a mad professor, and you’ll
have the armadillo safe and sound in
no time at all.
And this is fun?
The real-world physics supplies a new
kind of challenge, just like it has done
in the recent swathe of first-person
shooters. Had this game been made a
decade ago, you’d have a rough-and-
ready gravitational force, and pretty
much only one way to solve a problem.
With the new-fangled understanding,
and some extra technology, you’ve got
a really open-ended puzzler, that al-
ways has a big grin on its face.
Is it going anywhere?
Oh good lord yes. The ingenuity and
polish on the game has got it into the
Independent Games Festival, as well as
reviews from Eurogamer, PC Gamer
and PC Format.
It’s simplicity and good ideas, and
that’s been a standard for good games
since the eighties. Sometimes, we have
to accept that the teraflop just gets in
our way.
http://www.armadillorun.com
questions, direct the conversation, and
try to find out just what’s going wrong
with them. Playing the game multiple
times really shows off its depth – you’ll
see conversation strands, the decisions
you didn’t know were decisions, and
the many ways that the story can end.
Is it going anywhere?
Difficult to say. Game AI is extremely
hard to implement in such a way, and
Facade is a long way from being per-
fect. But the potential...
http://interactivestory.net/
W
hen Introversion
said they were
‘The Last Of The
Bedroom Coders’,
I think they knew
secretly all along that the opposite
was true. Instead of being the final
last hurrah from a generation of con-
certed programmers and independent
developers, they became the opening
act of a new performance from gamers
who create. A few years ago, you were
called an Independent Games Studio
if you hadn’t been bought out by EA
yet. Nowadays, the term celebrates all
kinds of creativity and experimenta-
tion; like the peripheral designed to
help couples play together. Get this:
boxer shorts and a bra with pressure-
sensitive pads and a projected Dance-
Dance Revolution game. The demo
videos were amusing, to say the least.
But also brilliant. That’s the thing
– crazy though these ideas may be,
crazy thought the concept of actually
playing a rhythm action game on your
girlfriend, instead of using it as a eu-
phemism, is, it’s very, very encouraging
to see. Because people out there are
thinking, and the power of the inter-
net means that the good ideas float to
the top. As long as you stay away from
Digg.
We’re offering you three of our most
recent favourites this week, that cover
the more inventive spectrum of Indie
Gaming, using novel control tech-
niques, breakthrough technology, or
sheer attention to detail to bring an
idea to life. Students are the main com-
ponent of this market – both those
playing, and those making – and it
doesn’t take more than a good idea, a
good team, and some dedication to get
a dream off the ground.
Naturally, we’re not saying that your
idea for a sexual deviancy simulator
using the Wiimote is going to get you
very far. But with development kits like
XNA making things easier, and com-
munities growing larger and larger, it
really is just a question of getting in-
volved, and seeing what you can do.
Dance Dance Revolution. On a bra.
Seriously, this shit’s ingenious.

