26 felix Friday 9 November 2007
Navratri: A Night of Enlightenment
O
n 30th October, Hindu
Soc celebrated the fes-
tival of Navratri with
their annual Ujaali,
which means “enlight-
enment”. Navratri is a celebration in
honour of the goddess, the mother of
the world, which begins on the first day
of Ashvin and goes on for nine days,
symbolising the triumph of good over
evil. During the nine days, feasting and
fasting take precedence over all nor-
mal daily activities amongst Hindus.
The nine days are divided and devoted
to the Trinity of God worshipped in a
female form: Durga, Lakshmi and Sar-
aswati are worshipped as three differ-
ent manifestations of Shakti, or cosmic
energy.
Navratri is a festival of worship,
dance and music. The most charac-
teristic dances are the Dandiya Raas
and the Garba dances, the origins of
which can be traced back to the leg-
Hindu Society recently celebrated the festival of Navratri in the Great Hall. Sally Longstaff donned her
saree and went along to find out more about modern Hindus and their spectacular ancient ceremonies
ends about the life of Lord Krishna.
Painted earthen pots with water and a
lamp inside symbolise the power of the
goddess and are traditionally put in the
home at this time. The word “Garba”
means “womb”, and the lamp in the pot
symbolically represents life within the
womb. The period is considered a fes-
tive season, but also a time of renewal,
ofreawakening.Shrinesarecleanedout
and new ventures are started. There is
also a focus on education and learning
both for Hindus and spreading aware-
ness to others about Hinduism.
I was invited to Ujaali on behalf
of Felix by the Hindu Soc President,
Ajay Gandhi. I was a little apprehen-
sive because I didn’t really know what
to expect. However I decided, having
viewed the photos of last years spec-
tacular on Hindu Soc’s website, that
I would have to get a saree. I found a
beautiful red and blue one with fabu-
lous stitching and sequins. At the Na-
vratri celebrations women wear tradi-
tional dresses such as sarees and choli
with lovely jewellery in amazingly di-
verse and bright colours.
After being met by Ajay, the night
began with Garba, which is a dance
that originated in the Gujarat region,
started by the women and joined in by
the rest of the men. Garba is a circular
dance, which was performed around
a statue of ShreeKrishna, clapping or
dancing around and around with the
sarees flowing around the room, like
beautiful butterflies. All the women
looked fantastic, and I have never seen
such a whirl of colour and exotic fab-
rics! After this, we were welcomed by
Ajay, who gave a short speech thank-
ing the organisers and helpers and in-
troducing the events of the evening. A
film was then showed which described
the origins of Navratri followed by a
dance performance of a specially cho-
reographed piece. Afterwards every-
one returned to the dancefloor for
more dancing of the Garba.
The most spiritual part of the evening
was during the prayer or Aarti. A tra-
ditional Hindu devotional song was
sung during the ritual and light from
wicks soaked in ghee or camphor was
offered to the deity. Aarti is performed
and sung to develop the highest love
for God: “Aa” means “towards” and
“A festive season
but also a time
of renewal and
reawakening”
“It was a very
spritual and
special part of
the evening”
Top: Meeting up with friends in the Great Hall; Above: Sally Longstaff, the Dance Performance, the girls and boys; Below: The Aarti Prayer around ShreeKrishna

