news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 9 November 2007 felix
News
The recent controversial comments
made by American geneticist and
DNA pioneer, Dr James Watson, have
led to accusations of racism, the can-
cellation of his UK book tour, and most
recently, his resignation as Chancellor
of Cold Springs Harbour Laboratory in
“You what, son? You can’t say that!”
DNA pioneer Dr James Watson’s recent comments have caused a storm of controversy within the media
that has reverberated throughout the world. Felix headed to the Biology department in search of answers
Andrew Turley New York.
On 25 October, the laboratory an-
nounced he would be retiring af-
ter nearly 40 years at the research
institute.
Previously, the Science Museum
in London cancelled a sold-out talk
Watson was due to give, stating that
his comments had “gone beyond the
point of acceptable debate”. Watson
was forced to cancel the tour to pro-
mote his new book, Avoid Boring Peo-
ple: Lessons from a Life in Science, and
returned to America.
The controversial comments lead-
ing up to these events were made in an
interview Watson gave for The Sunday
Times. In it he said he was “inherently
gloomy about the prospect of Africa”
because “all our social policies are
based on the fact that their intelligence
is the same as ours – whereas all the
testing says not really”.
He said that he hopes everyone is
equal, but that “people who have to
deal with black employees find this not
true”.
Speaking to Felix, Professor Ian
Owens, Head of the Division of Biolo-
gy in Imperial’s Faculty of Natural Sci-
ences, said that comments of the kind
made by Watson were unsupported by
scientific evidence.
He explained that the concept of
race is complex. Traditionally, scien-
tists have viewed it as an artificial con-
struct without a genetic basis, used as a
convenient label to crudely categorise
populations. More recent data has sug-
gested that some genetic lineages can
be identified, and that these perhaps
vary according to geography, but it re-
mains unclear what relation, if any, this
has to skin colour.
According to Professor Owens, intel-
ligence is similarly problematic. Envi-
ronmental factors are known to play
a significant role. Furthermore, there
is no one type of intelligence, making
objective measuring difficult, if not
impossible. If genes determining intel-
ligence can be identified, they are likely
to be many, with complex relations,
and as yet research is extremely lim-
ited. Therefore, to link these two areas
in this fashion is scientifically unjusti-
fied. Watson has since apologised for
his comments.
For those interested in finding out
more about the area, Professor Owens
recommends Genes, Peoples, and Lan-
guages by Luigi Luca Cavalli-Sforza as
an excellent starting point.
Dr James Watson back in the day
Imperial climbs to 5th in the
world. UCL also leaps to 9th
This year’s results for the Times High-
er Education Supplement’s (THES) an-
nual university world league table were
revealed on Thursday.
Last year Imperial was ranked 9th in
the world. It has climbed four places
since then and now sits at number
five. Imperial was beaten by Harvard
which sits on top of the pile, followed
by Cambridge, Oxford and Yale which
all share second place. Depending on
how much of an Imperial fanboy you
are, it could be argued that Imperial is
in fact 3rd in the world.
University College London (UCL) is
hot on Imperial’s heels however, climb-
ing all the way from 25th to this year’s
9th position.
The UK has four universities ranked
within the Top 10 and the remaining
places are made up of universities from
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
America. Impressively, both Imperial
and UCL are above the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT) whilst
Imperial even managed to pip Princ-
eton university into 5th place.
Some students have said that this re-
flects the absurdity of the THES Uni-
versity World Ranking, rather than the
UK’s academic excellence and that they
are taking it all with a heavy pinch of
salt.
The World Ranking is based on
surveys of around 5,000 academics as
well as the views from 1,500 interna-
tional companies. Data was also col-
lected about staff-student ratios and
the number of international students
at the universities.
Rumours that Imperial, UCL, Oxford
and Cambridge are going to join to-
gether like the mighty Power Rangers
to form Impucloxbridge University to
defeat the dastardly Harvard are com-
plete and utter nonsense.
Government privatises student loans debt
The government has announced it will
soon be allowed to sell student loan
debt to private companies. The “Sale
of Student Loans Bill”, first suggested
in March of this year, was confirmed
on Tuesday in documents released to
coincide with the Queen’s speech.
The bill will allow the government
to sell off the £18.1bn debt portfolio
in order to make a profit, estimated at
around £6bn, whilst it claims that full
control of interest rates, terms and re-
payment conditions will remain with
ministers. This means that individual
students should see no change to their
loans, though their debt is owned by
external organisations.
Concern over this move has been
voiced from several sources. It is
feared by some that this is part of a
longer-term strategy to bring the Stu-
dent Loans system up to more market-
standard levels, and reduce the level
Andrew Somerville
News Editor
of subsidy that the treasury currently
pays. Several prominent education fig-
ures, such as our own Rector, Sir Rich-
ard Sykes, have called for an increase
in loan interest rates, and support for a
higher education funding model more
in line with the US system.
There is also worry over the security
of debt portfolios sold in this fashion,
after the US “credit crunch” of recent
weeks was triggered by the sale of
“risky” debt in the mortgage market.
The NUS (National Union of Stu-
dents) President Gemma Tumelty has
stated that the students’ union “hope
that the confusion experienced by
graduates last time the government
sold student loans is avoided.” Mean-
while, future students question the
constantly increasing debt that they
are being encouraged into by govern-
ment and big business.
Are students going to be shafted by increased loan interest rates?
Whenever a scientist or prominent academic makes any comment
on a sensitive subject there is always a flurry of discussion and com-
ment. In media circles, the perceived weight of a scientist’s view
immediately opens up their statement to intense scrutiny. Harvard
president Lawrence Summers, and his infamous 2005 speech on the
differences between male and female abilities, is a classic example of
ill-advised personal opinion, and the negative impact that it can have
on a well-respected institute.
Whatever Dr Watson said (he has since suggested that he was mis-
quoted), the casual manner in which he addressed a subject which
remains controversial, even on a scientific level, should show any
academic the importance of choosing their words carefully. The sub-
ject of race is especially difficult, even genetically speaking: a fact
which should have been apparent to a biological scientist of such
reputation.
The divide between professional and personal opinion is an impos-
sible problem. When does a scientific hypothesis become influenced
by personal views? Should ideas be kept private, or exposed so that
people can put your work into context? The difficulties encountered
by a scientist entering into any kind of political, or unscientific,
debate renders many subjects taboo.
Historically, the personal opinions of scientists are respon-
sible for some horrific events, the most obvious of which is
the Holocaust; Nazi scientists, who set out to prove there
was a scientific basis for Aryan philosophies, carried
out some of the worst atrocities, and contributed to
the “validity” of the Reich.
Science remains a powerful political tool, and the
blurring of lines between science and opinion
can lead to unforeseen and far-reaching
consequences.
Whether fair or not, scientists must
always be aware that any opinion
or statement that is aired will
be used to put their work in
context, and will influence
their reception in many
important ways.
Andrew Somerville
The Scientist, or the Science?
Controversy and prejudice in academia

