31
felix
Friday 9 November 2007
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
I hadn’t heard of the Gore-tex Trans-
Alpine run until a chance discovery
on the Internet. This 8-stage foot race
across four countries in the European
Alps looked set to be a fantastic excuse
for another summer holiday. The race
itself covered 240km in its eight-day
route across Germany, Austria, Swit-
zerland and Italy. The longest day was
a full marathon with the added bonus
of 1844m of ascent (more than you
would do if you climbed the highest
mountain in the UK from sea level).
Luckily I had sufficient youthful over-
confidence and an enthusiastic run-
ning partner (Joseph Johnstone). We
had soon entered with little thought
for the consequences and settled down
to get some training in.
Six months later, with the magnitude
of the race finally dawning on us we
boarded our flight to get to the race.
Gradually over the last few months,
our dreams of victory faded as train-
ing had floundered amidst exams and
other holidays. We were now slightly
concerned that we wouldn’t be able to
finish the race. Making it to the end
was our only concern.
Our arrival at the event was greeted
with an array of sponsor’s adverts,
tents and marquees as well as many
pairs sporting the logos of their own
personal sponsors. We felt somewhat
out of place with no sponsor and no
expensive gear. Still, without allowing
our competitors to smell our fear, we
registered and settled down to the first
of our nightly pasta parties – unlimited
pasta for racers, provided by the village
at the end of each stage, was a welcome
end to each day’s exertions and fantas-
tic preparation for the following day.
The following morning we awoke
nervously to heavy rain and poked our
way through the continental breakfast
whilst wondering where our bacon and
eggs were and contemplating the day
ahead. In next to no time we were all
kitted out and nervously waiting in the
start box. We had cheekily taken our
position right at the front of the pack
– the youngest team in the competi-
tion and visually the most eager. The
announcer gradually raised the tempo
until we were all ready to go. The sound
of ‘Highway to Hell’ blared from the PA
system as the countdown ticked. The
starter’s pistol sounded and the race be-
gan. The start was ‘neutralised’ mean-
ing we were to follow motorbikes until
we left the village; the pavements were
lined with people for the first kilome-
tre. I was surrounded by international
endurance athletes, each excelling in
the field and I was struggling to keep
up. There was no danger of overtaking
the leading motorbikes.
The first ten kilometres of this first
day were easily the hardest section of
the entire race for me. I am not a road
runner and these first ten kilometres
was largely flat and on a road-like sur-
face. As a result and due to the excite-
ment of the race we failed to pace our-
selves and this left me struggling for
much of the rest of the day. However,
we did make good time initially and
continued to gain places as we worked
our way up the major climb of the day
towards the second checkpoint. By this
time I was genuinely struggling and the
final 7 km of the day were very difficult
indeed. The fears of non-completion
were foremost in my mind and moti-
vation seemed hard to come by. The
sight of the finish that day was most
welcomed and we struggled home, ec-
static that we had completed Day One
and for a while thought nothing of the
days to come. Our position of 33rd of
43 pairs in the men category after this
tough day buoyed our spirits slightly
as it seemed others had also found the
route difficult. We awoke on the second
day aching and apprehensive of the day
ahead: 29.73 kilometres with 1947 me-
ters climb and 1785 meters decent. The
day began with a 6km slog up a gently
inclined track to an Alpine hut, a sec-
tion on which we held our own but had
to work very hard. This was followed
by a long high level traverse on tricky
scree before a final, unexpected climb
and a long gentle descent.
On the morning of the third day
we rose again, my body finally begin-
ning to feel like it was recovering from
that misguided first 10km and ready
to begin pushing itself again. The day
ahead looked like it would be a good
one for us as it included two massive
ascents with a total of 2437m of steep
climb. Our background as moun-
taineers meant that we were strong
on the uphills and this was where we
gained most of our advantage – we
were ready for them today. The first
climb went very well and we were in
a good position as we came over the
first col, particularly as the upper sec-
tion was ‘technical ground’, something
with which we are very familiar. The
descent from this point was most en-
joyable and we were soon working our
way up the second climb, exhaustion
beginning to seep quietly into our mus-
cles. Knowing we were on par with the
fast runners pushed us up and over to
the long and gentle descent all the way
to the valley floor and the finish. Our
tired contentedness at completing the
day as planned was rewarded hand-
somely with a 22nd place finish for the
day – something we would never have
dreamed off just three days previous.
Our targets for the race began to rise
again as we contemplated the possibil-
ity of a top twenty finish.
The fourth day saw the race take a
turn back towards the activities we
were more accustomed too as heavy
snowfall transformed the higher sec-
tions of the stage. The cold weather,
heavy winds and falling snow seemed
more reminiscent of Scotland than
a summer in the Alps – something
our competitors did not seem happy
about. Despite a slip on icy rocks and a
slight sprained ankle, we were now in a
rhythm and achieved a finish position
of 25th for this day.
We were now halfway through the
race with an overall position which
had risen slowly to 23rd. The following
day was the shortest stage at 6.19km
and 936m of ascent and no descent.
We were hoping that this would be our
day to get a good position. We weren’t
wrong as falling snow and a lot of hard
work left us finishing in just over one
hour with a team position of 18th. Our
top 20 target was beginning to come
into sight.
The following two days saw us com-
plete more than 70km and nearly
3000m of ascent over more mountain-
ous tracks and ever more snow includ-
ing the highest point on the entire race
at just over 3000m. Finishes of 23rd
and 20th left us in an overall posi-
tion of 21st with one day to go and a
mere nine minutes behind the pair in
20th. Our aim was clear and the final
28.62 kilometres would be the stage
that mattered most, we had to win by
a clear 9 minutes.
The day began well and we reached
the first checkpoint in good time,
pushing ourselves to the limit as we
were aware the team we needed to beat
were still ahead of us. Our motivation
temporarily lapsed as we approached
the top of the final climb of the day,
aware that we had still not overtaken
the pair in front and also aware that we
normally lost ground on the downhills.
Still, pushing ourselves ever onwards
we overtook just after the highest point
and worked hard all the way down the
hill, pushing ourselves harder than ever
before as we knew the end was close.
Approaching the finish we knew we
were ahead but not how much and so
a tense 9 minutes ensued. Before we
knew it, we had done it- we had fin-
ished in the top twenty. Our ideas of
victory all those months ago had now
been replaced by a lesser achievement
that still left us feeling fantastic. We
headed directly for the free beer tent
and made ourselves at home. We had
finished the competition the youngest
team to enter and finish and also the
highest ranking British team in the
men’s category. We can’t wait to go
back next year.
Both Joe and I are active
members of the Outdoor Club
and if you are interested in
entering events like this either in
the UK or abroad we would love
to meet you! E-mail outdoor@
ic.ac.uk for more details or come
to one of our meetings which are
held every Tuesday at 12.30 in
dB’s.
Gore-Tex trans-alpine 2007, one hell of a race!
Neil Dowse
The finish line, what a relief!
Some guy running on snow, mental! How is he not cold?
Having been placed at the bottom of
the esteemed Felix sports team rank-
ings, it was time to fight back. A slight-
ly nervous 15 player squad walked
out onto the Royal Holloway Sports
Grounds in Egham on Wednesday 31st
October. (I say nervous because of the
Lacrosse
Imperial Women’s 1st 7
Royal Holloway 1st 5
well-known fact that several players of
the opposition were American; trained
in the States to a level that would give
England lacrosse players a run for their
lacrosse balls.)
Captaining the opposition was, nat-
urally, one such American and as she
confidently marched over towards me
for the toss, she towered like Goliath
would have over David. Well, not quite-
but hopefully you’re getting the idea
that Holloway were a fearsome opposi-
tion; and we the lowly underdogs.
In Lacrosse, matches are divided
up into four fifteen-minute quar-
ters, swapping ends at half-time (i.e.
a match lasts one hour, with three
breaks in play.) The first quarter went
well for the IC team, we executed some
great plays down the field and our ef-
forts were justly rewarded with a 3 goal
advantage.
Our relatively inexperienced goal-
Lacrosse
Imperial Mixed 1st 23
Royal Holloway Mixed 2nd 0
Lacrosse club on winning form
Olivia Raglan
keeper Anna displayed some fantastic
skill and held off most of the shots that
the opposition were blasting at her.
However, by half-time Holloway had
started to fight back and brought the
score back to 3-3. Shit.
The third quarter saw Holloway
continue to take advantage of our mo-
mentary lapse in concentration and
brought the score to 5-4 (Holloway in
the lead). Having frustratingly lost our
last two matches, the IC ladies weren’t
going to let their brilliant skills and
team-work get trampled over again.
We fought back and the game saw
some phenomenal shooting by Izzie
Brown and Sabina Barbur in attack
to bring the final score to an Imperial
win, 7-5. A far over-due credit to the
determination of our girls.
The dismayed expression on the Hol-
loway faces as we left victorious will be
remembered for many weeks to come,
or at least until we face them again
at home in Harlington on December
5th…
And to continue with the success of
the Imperial Lacrosse Club this week: a
big congratulations to the Mixed team
who remain undefeated this season
as they continue to defend their ULU
Champion title from last year, winning
their last match on Sunday 4th No-
vember with a storming score of 23-0
against Royal Holloway.
Lacrosse ladies team posing after a well earned victory

