33
felix
Friday 9 November 2007
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
The importance of
diet and exercise
Linda Hagg
A healthy balanced diet will provide
your muscles with the energy that is
needed in order to perform well. A
healthy diet consists of a balanced mix
of nutrients: carbohydrates, protein
and fat, as well as minerals and vita-
mins. You need to have a sufficient
calorie intake in order to maintain
your metabolic and activity needs. An
excessive calorie intake results in fat
storage. How many calories you need a
day varies depending on body size, age,
gender and physical activity performed
by the individual. The amount of each
food group needed will depend on the
type of sport played, the amount of
training completed and the time spent
playing your sport.
Carbohydrate is used as the main
source of fuel when exercising and if
there is not enough of it the perform-
ance will be limited. The best carbohy-
drates are complex carbohydrates and
they are found in foods such as fruits,
potatoes, pasta, wholegrain breads and
cereals.
Protein is probably the most talked
about nutrient amongst people who
are working out in the gym. So why is
protein so important? Its main func-
tions are to support growth and to
repair body tissues. The best food
sources for protein include meat, fish,
and legumes (dried beans and peas).
However, eating too much protein can
cause harm to your kidneys and liver,
due to the excess strain they are put
under whilst processing protein. In
order to avoid damaging the kidneys
these toxic waste products need to be
diluted with large amounts of water in
order to be excreted through the urine.
The urinary excretion causes an in-
crease in water loss and increases the
chance for dehydration. Furthermore
when too much protein is present in
the diet, the absorption of calcium in
particular is prevented. It causes high
losses of calcium in the urine which
can cause osteoporosis.
It is often thought that if you are
physically active you should avoid
fats at all costs if good health is to be
achieved and maintained. However the
body needs a certain amount of fat in
order to function properly. Fats or lip-
ids are necessary part of a healthy diet,
because they are a source of stored
energy.
It has been discussed however you
should avoid saturated fat, since it in-
creases the risk of heart disease com-
pared with monosaturated (found in
olives, avocados and peanuts) and
polysaturated fats (found in fish, nuts,
sunflower and cod liver oils). It is wise
to substitute saturated fat with unsatu-
rated fat whenever possible. Water is
the most important nutrient, yet the
most overlooked one. Water is essen-
tial to maintaining good hydration and
body temperature. Always make sure
you drink plenty of water before, dur-
ing and after your work out.
A poor diet will have a negative effect
on the performance of even the most
casual athlete. Make sure you have a
good diet with adequate nutrients and
calories so that you have enough ener-
gy to enjoy your workout. It’s all about
moderation and using your common
sense.
Football
Imperial Men’s 5th 2
Queen Mary’s Men’s 3rd 1
Chloe Joyeux
On a bright and clear Halloween day,
the IC Football Women 1st XI and
Football Men 5th XI arrived at Har-
lington, each ready to kick-ass against
respective Queen Mary’s sides. The lat-
ter however, in accordance with their
reputation, were awfully late. The 5th
XI, being bored, challenged the 1st XI
to a pre-match game. Despite not wish-
ing to embarrass the men, the women
reluctantly agreed to their pleas.
With Squashy as the ref, the game
started. It was agreed that the men
would only be allowed to play two-
touch football in order to practice their
appalling passing. Being extremely sure
of themselves, they decided to not have
a goalie and have an all-attacker for-
mation. Of course, the women fought
bravely, with Yoke performing a clean
tackle on Tariq, who as a result took a
ridiculous dive, not knowing what had
happened to him. The shortest player
of the women’s team then proceeded
towards the goal of the opposition.
The men scored a disallowed goal
which was immediately judged offside
by the fair Squashy, despite many of
them gesticulating at the decision and
on the verge of tears. The men, trying
their hardest to leave the game with
their pride intact, proceeded to shoot
at the goal from all directions and to-
wards all directions, leaving the goal
mostly untouched. Several clearances
from Emma, Cheryl and Kate did the
trick, although Emily was able to show
off her skills with a few saves. The boys
struggled with their two-touch rule,
being unable to play as a team, enabling
Pav, Mona and Steph to take advantage
of their bad passes. Gui tried to keep
the team together by screaming at each
player on his team what they were do-
ing...maybe his way of asking for the
ball. Many others were shouting, al-
though it was difficult to decipher
what they were trying to say.
Finally Skeen was able to score, but
only by taking his shirt off. The wom-
en, in disgust at the man-breasts, had
to avert their eyes, giving Skeen a clear
path to the goal and bringing the score
to 1-0 after the first few minutes. How-
ever the score did not stay put very
long. After a foul from Tariq, a penalty
was generously awarded to the girls.
Louise took advantage of it and shot.
Skeen, now in goal, did not even have
time to save the penalty and collapsed
like Mr. Potato Head on the treadmill.
More efforts were made by the men,
noticeably by shooting straight at the
girl defenders. Kate suffered from such
a blow from Mike Allen, taking a full
powered shot on her arm. Being a war-
rior, she did not flinch despite the pain
and continued defending, although
she did show us later her really red,
wounded skin. The last attempt by
the boys was a shot just metres from
the goal which hit the crossbar in true
Akinbiyi style. At this point, Queen
Mary’s finally appeared and the game
had to be stopped. The final score
therefore remained 1-1, with the men
feeling gutted at having missed their
chance to shine.
The men, however, made up by beat-
ing Queen Mary’s 2-1. The women
had less luck and conceded a goal in
the first half, minutes from half-time.
Despite the shortened halves, or per-
haps because of the lack of time, they
were unable to come back and equal-
ise. Queen Mary’s did not lack big girls
and from this point of view, were at an
advantage over the IC women, who
always seem smaller than their op-
ponents, (maybe because of Yoke and
Mona?). Despite lacking in this area,
however, they defended well. Emily in
goal saved a few, although most shots
went wide or came slowly at her. They
will, therefore, be looking forward to
Sunday, when they are to face Queen
Mary’s once again. Steph, who had
some beef with their number 10, 7, and
9, will especially be happy to renew
her connections with these beasts and
show them what she’s made of.
Football
Imperial Women’s 1st 0
Queen Mary’s Women’s 1st 1
Footballers play friendly before facing QM
The football team competing for a high ball
Rugby 1st go top of the table
Jovan Nedić
& Joe Sanders
Rugby
Imperial Men’s 1st XV 26
RUMS 1st XV 5
After a sensational performance
against Portsmouth last week, the 1st
XV were ready to entertain top of the
table Royal University Medical School
(RUMS) at Harlington.
Throughout the week the side has
been practising a more open style of
play similar to the style that the Fijians
play in their sevens. It was aimed to be
used as an addition to the phenomenal
style the team has developed in the
tight play, and it was pulled off during
the game on Wednesday.
The game started in the same style
as it did last week, their forwards were
attempting to dominate the Impe-
rial forwards, and were successful for
about the first 10 minutes, yet RUMS
failed to push this advantage. After
that rather surprising wake up call, the
forwards decided to rise to the chal-
lenge and managed to stabilise the
scrums, as well as the rucks and mauls.
This gave the backs the platform they
needed to do their magic, with fly-half
Joe Brown slicing the RUMS defence in
two and off–loading to Tom Zeal who
went over the line for a try.
RUMS were not yet ready to give up,
and after successfully stopping the Im-
perial rolling maul in its tracks, they
attempted their own and managed to
score the try that brought them back
into the game.
The Imperial forwards, wounded by
this show of power and their pride in
tatters, decided to up the pace and to-
wards the end of the first half managed
to set up a rolling maul from a line-out,
which Alex Johnstone manoeuvred
over the try line for Imperial second
try.
This spur in confidence let the
front row believe that they were wing-
ers, with tight-head prop (that’s me
“Bodger”) slicing through the line for
a 30 metre amble up the wing, but was
unable to off-load it to Daniel Godfrey
who was in support. The first half end-
ed with Imperial leading 14 - 5.
The second half saw a bit of a drama
queen act from Twat of the Match Joe
Brown for not having his favourite ball
to play with. However once the game
was underway, all of the weeks training
was paying off, with the team enforc-
ing the open style of play on the game.
Full-back Max Joachim scored a well
executed try, which involved virtu-
ally the entire team. A similar try was
South East 1A
P W D L F A Diff Pts
1 Imperial 5 4 0 1 100 42 58 12
2 RUMS 5 4 0 1 107 85 22 12
3 GKT 5 2 0 3 123 122 1 6
4 Brunel 4 2 0 2 84 79 5 6
The 1st XV ‘back line’ in action against RUMS
scored again with loose-head prop Joe
“Badger” Sanders storming through
the line, and unlike his compatriot,
managed to off-load the ball to cen-
tre Tom Carroll for the final try of the
match. RUMS, hoping for some sort
of consolation, increased the pressure,
but strong defence by Imperial meant
that the score remained at 26-5 until
the final whistle.
Man of the Match went to Tom Zeal,
but special mention has to go to Dan
Godfrey who put in an excellent per-
formance, it’s just a shame he can’t re-
member it.

