felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Cliffhanger
Mountaineering club report on their
summer tour to Mallorca, see page 30
Imperial Men’s 2nd Fencing team
made it two wins from two with a well
deserved victory over UCL’s 2nd team.
Going into the game, UCL were top of
the league thanks to a convincing 135
– 98 victory over Portsmouth, putting
the pressure on Imperial to make a
statement of intent as they challenge
for the title.
Once again, the match started with
sabre as both sides were awaiting the
arrival of key foilists. Imperial got
off to a rocky start with team captain
Maurice Berk losing 3 – 5 in his first
match up, Will Hoy only managing a 5
– 5 draw and Luka Lukic defeated 2 –
5. Maurice lost his second match 3 – 5,
Luka drew his 5 – 5 and Will lost 2 – 5,
leaving the scores at 20 – 30 and Im-
perial staring defeat in the face. Luka,
ever the consummate competitor, then
stunned all onlookers with an unbe-
lievable 14 – 5 victory in his final sabre
match, cementing his position as ‘Man
of the Match’ and leaving Imperial only
a point adrift. Sadly Maurice and Will
were not able to capitalise, losing their
final matches 5 – 2 and 5 – 3 respec-
tively, leaving the final score for sabre
at 39 – 45 and Imperial with a small
mountain to climb in order to get back
into the contest.
Foil was up next and Imperial got off
to a perfect start with Nathan Blundell,
Ez Hassan and Norris Lo all winning
their first matches. Nathan then de-
molished his second opponent 5 – 1,
Norris drew 5 – 5 and Ez’s match went
to time, finishing at 4 – 2. At this point
Imperial were 29 – 17 in the lead and
well in control. The UCL captain then
approached Maurice and ominously
announced he wished to make a sub-
stitution for the final foil match. In the
mean time, Norris defeated his final
opponent 6 – 3 and Nathan drew his
match 5 – 5. Ez then took his place
on the piste with the scores at 40 – 25
and victory seemingly assured. His
opponent, the mysterious substitute,
had other plans however, making Ez
work hard to keep the scores close at
4 – 6 before the match went to time,
leaving everyone wondering why UCL
had used their best foilist only as a sub-
stitute, and speculating as to how dif-
ferent things might have been had he
been fencing from the start.
Going into épeé, the scores stood
at 83 – 76, affording Imperial some
breathing space. It seemed like they
might need it when Maurice lost his
first match 2 – 5 to the opposing cap-
tain but Luka got things back on track
with an 8 – 4 victory against his first
opponent. Ez, a foilist masquerading
as an épeéist, then went down to a 5 –
6 defeat. Maurice got back to winning
ways with a close fought 5 – 4 victory
but Ez continued to struggle and lost
his second match 1 – 6. Fortunately,
Luka, assured as ever, brushed aside
his second opponent 9 – 0, propel-
ling Imperial into the lead at 30 – 25.
Ez lost his final match 5 – 6 but made
his opponent work hard for it, leaving
Maurice in the position of putting the
match beyond doubt with a 5 – 4 victo-
ry. UCL managed some small consola-
tion when their captain beat Luka 7 – 5
but with the final épeé scores at 45 – 42
it was too little, too late and Imperial
go into their next match, against Royal
Holloway, top of the league.
Imperial fencers see away UCL without a hitch
Fencing
UCL Men’s 2nd 118
Imperial Men’s 2nd 128
Maurice Berk
Good luuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuunge

