4 felix Friday 9 November 2007
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
Let’s talk about God, baby
Matty Hoban
A
pathy is pretty ubiqui-
tous. Apathy comes
from the good old Greeks
and the word apathes
means ‘without feeling’.
You probably knew this so what is the
point in me reiterating it? Well, the
words without feeling pretty much say
death to me. There is definitely a dra-
matic overtone in that sentence but I
do not think it is fiction.
I have been thinking a lot about such
things recently since visiting my grand-
mother and seeing her in what is effec-
tively the final stage in her life. Aside
from all the personal feelings about her
in that condition, I was left with what
can be called, context. It put my own
atheistic beliefs and her Roman Catho-
lic beliefs into context.
Throughout history, the amount of
choice and the ability to make edu-
cated choices have both increased (as a
result of science). Even in the couple of
generations between my grandmother
and myself I can see how many more
choices I have open to me compared to
her limited opportunities. My grand-
mother was an immigrant and her life
was occupied with finding work, work-
ing and then raising children; time for
leisure was limited and time for con-
templating existence was (ironically)
non-existent. Also one great feature
in her life is her Roman Catholicism;
from the certainty it gives her and the
support it has given her throughout
her life (through the church communi-
ties she belonged to primarily).
How is this relevant to apathy you
may ask? Well, I think also through-
out history, wilful apathy has also in-
creased. One could say that apathy has
been glorified in culture as pro-active
people are seen as threatening. How-
ever, it is probably down to the in-
crease in comfort (the famous adage
that society is three meals away from
revolution) and thus the increase in
choices; it is natural to feel indifferent
when many different paths are open to
you. Again my grandmother’s immedi-
ate needs for stability impassioned her
Catholicism as something she needed
and the certainty it gave her.
Now, as I see myself in comfort
with a variety of choices open to me
to which she contributed, it would do
her a disservice to be indifferent. Of
course, there is the choice to be apa-
thetic, but surely pro-active apathy is a
waste of thinking energy. I want to use
my choices to oppose those elements
that move society away from secular-
ism, because allowing religious groups
to influence society, I believe, is wrong
and I’m sure many will agree with me; it
can only move society back to the situ-
ations that my grandmother strived to
move out of. Alongside this, just as she
was supported by her church, I believe
there should be support for those who
choose to live without religion.
I wanted to write this short column
to promote the Atheist and Agnos-
tic Society that has been formed not
by saying that God does not exist (he
doesn’t, by the way) but by saying that
by doing something about the choices
you have, you reassert your position
in history as the benefactors of great
change and want to give something
back. Please get in touch if you want to
get involved.
A
s you may have noticed,
the idea of this column
is to give Felix readers a
picture of how life varies
across of Imperial halls
of residence. Unofficially, it also gives
wardens a place to offer a piece of their
mind to the general student population
about a topic particularly close to their
heart. Hence, given Piccadilly Court is
in Islington/Camden/sticks, depend-
ing who you ask, today I would like to
say a few words about location.
Be honest now, whenever you were
applying to come to Imperial, did you
put “life in South Kensington” as one of
your main priorities? Can’t live without
a French pattisserie next door? Exclu-
sive dietary requirement of Harrods’
baked beans? Or were you excited by
the prospect of coming to a world-
leading centre of academic excellence
to get the best out of yourselves, find a
career that stimulates you and embark
on it, confident in knowing that you
are at the right place for it.
Do not get me wrong, I am not call-
ing anyone spoiled for wanting to live
next door to College, however it still
amazes me to what lengths people are
prepared to go, only to ensure that if
they fall out of bed at 8.58, they will
have rolled down the steps into their
lecture room by 9.00. Medical cases
that cannot go to sleep unless they are
safe knowing three major museums are
watching over them? Eager sports fans
whose gruelling tiddly-winks training
regime is suffering due to their extra
travel? Female Alcohol Appreciation
Society (yes, seriously) members who
are regularly refused entry to night
buses and are thus discriminated
against if placed outside South Ken?
This is London. A glorious, ram-
shackle collection of villages and towns
which grew into each other over centu-
ries producing a metropolis unrivalled
in the Western world. As a conse-
quence, once you move out of the halls,
you are highly unlikely to find anything
affordable within its centre, which
means saying goodbye to Boujis and
Harvey Nicks and trying to figure out
just where on the tube map Hackney is.
It may sound cruel, however the earlier
you embrace the many communities of
London, the easier it will be to decide
where you want your next home to be.
The difference between studying at
Imperial and studying at Oxbridge, is
that London does not provide you with
a sheltered, isolated community that
is happy to ignore the world outside.
Over here, you are expected to create
your own niche within the bigger set-
ting of the city, and learn to enjoy the
advantages of such a setting. At Picca-
dilly Court we traditionally strive to or-
ganize events and outings in Islington
so as to make students appreciate what
it has to offer. Other halls do the same.
One of the valuable lessons that uni-
versity teaches students is how to live
with others on the course and in the
hall. The exact same principle applies
to your neighbourhood, be it Padding-
ton, Ealing, Islington or Chelsea, so get
the most out of it. Even if Harrods does
not deliver there.
Approaching the quarter-life crisis
I
’m not adjusting very well to
joiningtheranksoftwentysome-
things, it’s true. Just a few years/
months/weeks/days ago now, I
left the years of teenagerhood
behind me, and began the journey to-
wards Radio 2, wearing short-sleeved
shirts non-ironically and eating Brie.
I barely know what Brie is, and I have
nightmares where people ask me what
wine to drink with it and I pronounce
‘rioja’ wrong.
Not that this has changed the routine
I’ve got into of wake up, have fruit-and-
fibre, walk to soul-dissolving lectures,
die a little inside and go home for tea.
What it has done, rather unhelpfully,
is make the impending graduation I’m
in a staring contest with slightly less-
appealing than fellating the Rector on
national television.
When we all arrived at Imperial,
fresh-faced and full of bullshit gap year
stories, the plan was simple - party
hard and study later. Fuck yes.
Anyway, a week later when every-
one had lost enthusiasm and seemed
to be going to the union out of a sense
of duty more than anything else, this
dull kind of stupor descends and you
find yourself performing a daily cy-
cle of courseworks and having lunch
with your vapid, internship-seeking
“friends”.
For the first year, incidentally, this
seems great fun and you feel really
bloody mature, but like Heroes, re-
lationships with English women and
milk, give it twelve months or so
and you’ll notice things go consider-
ably downhill, where you wake up one
morning tongue-deep in the rear end
of graduate recruitment schemes, and
you notice your boss is some prick who
left your school at sixteen to the sound
of you mocking him. Good move.
Anyway, I’m somewhere between
those two states of mind right now,
considering the possibility of just
tossing my sanity down the drain in
exchange for a wife, two kids and a
nine-to-five, probably resulting in a
combination of the Columbine massa-
cre and an episode of the Office. And
yet, at the same time, I’m still cling-
ing on to the idea that I’m young, I’m
a student in a fine university, and that
my dreams are still there to be chased.
Despite this, every success story in the
news normally contains the sentence
“the magic started in his/her teens”
and given that the only magic I can
think of involved me winning a fiver
in a packet of Walkers’ crisps, which
probably doesn’t qualify me for an
obituary in The Times, I guess the only
hope for me is to learn to use the word
“profitability” in a sentence and try my
hand at entrepreneurship like the rest
of the depressed fame-chasers in my
godforsaken department.
Is my thirst to be someone a bad
thing? Is that why the idea of actually
submitting my CV to someone seems
so awful? Or is it because jobs, like age,
signal that preparation time is over, and
anything you aren’t ready for is just a
symptom of your own incompetence?
Sure, there are grey-haired luna-
tics who retrained at the age of three
hundred to become exotic dancers or
whatever, but I’m not sure the world it-
self is going to last long enough for me
to turn things around late in the day,
and I’m pretty sure my coffee-addled,
stress-wrecked body will refuse point
blank.
I guess we’ll see how things go. For-
tunately for me, I’ve got time to kill.
For you poor sods who are facing the
big wide world of careers fairs and job
applications, I feel for you. But don’t
worry, because I’ll get mine in a year
or so, when you’re the one in the suit,
staring down at me and cackling as
you offer a free pen and the promise of
‘networking’.
Until then, I’m off to write my award-
winning novel and draft the film adap-
tation, possibly beginning my career
path in amateur photography at the
same time. See you in twelve months,
guys. I’ve got my ‘fuck you’ cover letter
ready and waiting.
A. Geek
Go beyond South Kensington: interact!
Vasa Curcin
Piccadilly Court
Wardening the
Almighty Organ
Ass-kissing: A symptom of the
quarter-life crisis

