comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 9 November 2007 felix
Comment
Comment
Letters to Felix
Dear Felix,
I am sorry to hear about Mr Elliot’s dis-
appointment on finding the JCR to be
covered in rubbish but while I always
put my own rubbish in the bin, I am
not at all surprised that it is this messy.
Charging students over £1 for a coffee
is extortionate, and IC catering cannot
expect any ‘respect’ while this daylight
robbery continues.
There used to be a cafe in the RSM
(Claud’s) where students could get
their morning caffeine fix served by
friendly staff for a mere 35p, and it was
always left clean and tidy afterwards.
Unfortunately the College decided to
close it down, despite hundreds of sig-
natures from staff and students alike,
so now we have to pay almost three
times as much in order to stay awake
during morning lectures.
If people are charged prices expected
at a high street coffee shop then it’s not
unreasonable to expect the service of
a high street coffee shop (including
people to clean up after them). Alter-
natively, if prices were a bit lower then
maybe people would be more willing
to tidy up their own mess.
Yours Faithfully,
Robert Cook
Extortionate
prices causing
the Imperial
mess
In defence of the
RSM
Dear Felix,
As a veteran RSM student, I would like
to defend the RSM following the arti-
cle in last week’s Felix. Stephen Brown
may well have stated that the RSM
Freshers’ Dinner is the “Most Notori-
ous Night of the Year”, but the same
man also stated that he thoroughly
enjoyed the evening he oversaw from
the head table. Whilst it has to be said
that there were some “happy puddles”
at the end of the evening, it was not the
result of deliberate efforts by elder stu-
dents. The freshers were forewarned
prior to the evening about the types of
activities likely to happen, and yet they
are all eager to come along and take
part, rather than attending the “pleas-
ant all round” CGCU event they could
also have attended (surely this is a mat-
ter of opinion anyway? I know many
who would contest it is the most noto-
riously dull event of the year, but this is
another matter). It is always made clear
to the freshers that they do NOT need
to drink anything they don’t want to
and hosts understand that they are re-
sponsible for their freshers and should
advise the freshers when to stop drink-
ing and offer them water instead.
Indeed, there are some freshers who
drink too much, but largely this is their
own doing through having just got to
university and wanting to stretch their
wings and test their body, since many
of them may not have had that free-
dom whilst at home under their par-
ents’ watchful eyes. However, what the
News Editor has omitted is that most
students are well-behaved and have a
thoroughly enjoyable time whilst not
being paralytically drunk. The Edi-
tor has also testified wrongly that the
other students show a “lack of care”
and are “selfish” towards the freshers,
when in actual fact all freshers who do
become too drunk are dutifully looked
after until a way of getting them home
is sorted, which often results in the stu-
dents taking them back to their halls
themselves, or paying for a taxi and en-
listing help to get them back safely.
TheRSMisbeingconstantlyknocked
down by the other faculty unions, most
notably by the CGCU, it has to be said.
Yet despite only (technically) being
a Clubs and Society Committee, the
RSM still hosts more successful faculty
events than either the RCSU or CGCU,
and whilst having a much smaller stu-
dent population, the RSM consistently
draws in more students to their bar
nights and dinners. Again technically,
we are supposed to be a subdivision of
the CGCU, and yet are ostracised from
everything they do (and are slated in
the Guildsheet when trying to join in
their bar night), offered no support by
them, and in fact have our property
repeatedly broken into and criminally
damaged by the so-called “Trojan
Horse” mascot team (which is a par-
ticularly thuggish act). We think them
too animals (and criminals) for such
behaviour of which their President
is clearly in support of (see his proud
grin with his “Trojan Horse” team after
stealing our mascot (and our inviolate
one which they have and are refusing
to give back – is this not against their
so-called “Rules of Mascotry”?))?
As a final word, I’d like to point out
the RSM students are not the only IC
students who like to have a drink and
a good time – has anyone ever seen
any of the ties initiations, the rugby
club’s kangaroo courtroom, the Med-
ics?! Whilst I’m not slating those clubs
(or approving), they are just as “notori-
ous” as the RSM Freshers’ Dinner, and
yet they don’t get articles slating them
all over Felix. At the end of the day
the RSMC&SC has many people who
dedicate time and effort to ensuring
very popular events for its students,
and a few freshers having too many
drinks at their fresher’s dinner should
not be allowed to mar the reputation
of an otherwise popular and historic
institution.
Susie Ogilvie
Royal School of Mines Committee
member 07/08
Bad behaviour
is down to
individuals, not
the RSM as a
collective
Dear Felix,
On behalf of the under-represented
within the Royal School of Mines I
wish to complain about the represen-
Felix hears from Royal School of Mines members in response to last week’s article about the behaviour of
students which included those at the RSM Freshers’ Dinner and another reader replies to Mr Elliott’s letter
Gilead Amit
I
t's very easy to be a cynic. I
know, because I can do it. It's a
natural compulsion to seek to
criticize the work and beliefs of
others, and we all indulge in that
to some degree. To construct some-
thing oneself, however, is inconceiv-
ably harder.
Being an idealist is hard work. Again,
I know this first-hand. It is difficult to
look for the good in man, and emo-
tionally exhausting to tie yourself to
a given cause. Almost despite myself,
I admire them. Not because they're
right (which they rarely are), and not
because they're easier to get along with
(an argument with an idealist is likely
to be twice as long and four times as
brutal as an argument with a cynic),
but because they have courage.
There are two types of courage.
There's the kind that's celebrated in
songs and legends: the moment where
a decision has to be taken, and an
unseen, previously unknown moti-
vation causes you to make a hard yet
potentially rewarding choice. As has
been expressed in countless quota-
tions, such courage implicitly depends
on fear – if you are not overcoming
fear, then you are not doing anything
extraordinary.
This type of courage is impossible
to analyse. People who attempt to put
themselves into the shoes of their he-
roes are deluding themselves.
Courageous choices cannot be made
out of context, and it is a depress-
ing exercise to sit, without adrenaline
rushing through your body, without
your heart beating like a horse parade,
without cold sweat running down your
back like Niagara Falls, and look at all
the noble and heroic decisions you feel
that you could never make. Again, I
talk from experience.
The second type of courage is a great
deal more interesting. For me, this is
the strength to carefully reflect upon
a choice, weigh up the pros and cons,
and decide to take the harder course of
action. We tend to call this 'standing
by one's convictions', and is one of the
attributes I admire the most.
But I am equally impressed, espe-
cially today, by people who have the
courage to have any convictions at all.
People who are not content to watch
global events with the detachment of
those who read the sporting scores
the day after the match. That rarest of
groups, the actual supporters, those
who get involved – the match-time
streakers of politics.
It is very tempting to be morally lazy:
to change convictions and beliefs with
impunity because you never properly
established them to begin with. It's less
important to me to know that some-
one will stand by their beliefs than it is
to know that they actually have beliefs.
That they took the time and effort, and
braved the emotional risks of aligning
themselves with something that may
turn out to be wrong, and may make
them out to look foolish.
Idealists are often blind to opposing
arguments. They tend to take things
for granted rather than question them.
They die out very quickly, they are
often wrong, and they get used and
abused by us insightful cynics.
I wish I could be one of them. I re-
ally do.
Cynicism, idealism and courageousness
tations made in the article last week
by Andrew Somerville regarding the
RSM. The RSM is a diverse body of
students, not all of whom take part in
or condone the activity of the Chaps or
events at the RSM dinner.
Vomit + urine + broken glass + food
fights = drunk students – so write an
article about the evils of alcohol and
lets have a bit less of the i’venevergot
tendrunkanddonesomethingstupid at-
titude disturbing my in-lecture reading
of Felix and frankly, pissing me off.
What’s with making out like all stu-
dents hailing from the RSM are some
breed of deranged howler monkeys
with Freudian complexes?! COME
ON!!! The event in question is being
blown entirely out of proportion. Yes,
some students were poorly behaved.
But, to compare the RSM to the CGCU
is ridiculous. For a start, some RSM
members attended the CGCU ball and
yet it still went without a hitch. I’m
sure if those present at the RSM din-
ner had sobered up in time to make it
CGCU that would have been trashed
too. So then, excuse me stating the ob-
vious here:
1) The behaviour at the RSM dinner
was perpetuated by individuals and is
not reflective of the department as a
whole.
2) The sun does not shine out of the
CGCU’syou-know-whatjustbecauseit
is called the CGCU but because people
don’t associate it with a crazy drunken
booze up in the same way as they do
the RSM dinner – but now that you’ve
thrown down the gauntlet who knows
what those crazy guilders might try!
3) Worse behaviour is seen every
week in the Union (go ask some stew-
ards about last week’s Wednesday
night if you don’t believe me)
What can we conclude dear read-
ers? Behaviour is down to the indi-
vidual and not something intrinsic to
a department. So let’s stop with the
“poor reputation” business – it’s silly
and everyone knows “poor reputation”
translates to students as “cool reputa-
tion” because our events are so mental
they’re BANNED! Yeah baby we’re wii-
iiiiiiiilllddd!!! *V-SIGN* and all the rest
of it... So stop making it cool! Just leave
the little children alone, they will grow
out of it and into functional people
and all that’s going to happen with the
dinner is that it’ll go somewhere else
where they don’t care if you smash it
up as long as you pay for it – and then
Mr S’ll have nothing to write about!
And as for the downfall of humanity
via the discourteousness of the young-
er generation – well, I’m a bit more
scared of the 12 year old hoodies that
hang around my area with knives than
I am about the litter in the JCR (al-
though litter is bad! Don’t litter!) Let’s
focus our attention on the slightly more
pressing matters at hand and not ruin
Imperial’s bit of sunshine that is Felix
bemoaning the ills of the youth today.
Oh yeah, and before you moan about
the RSM again, take a closer look at the
home departments of the Sabbs... Fuck
yeah! We’re not all the same and we’re
not all bad so give the RSM a break.
A 4th Year Observer
Royal School of Mines
Felix News Editor, Andrew Somer-
ville, responds to the comments made
by the RSM members:
The article published last week was
not intended as an attack on all RSM
members, nor to portray them as “de-
ranged howler monkeys”. In an article
about an event which I did not attend,
all I can do is report comments and
statements from witnesses and the sub-
sequent fallout.
The fact of the matter is that we at Fe-
lix have received and invited opinions
from various people, both attending
and not attending the dinner in ques-
tion. Most of these were negative.
I have since spoken to the RSM Presi-
dent about the article, and assured him
that whilst I am not out to persecute the
RSM, I am duty-bound to report what I
believe is newsworthy.
The RSM has a devoted and cohesive
union, something I believe should be
admired, and I know that their repre-
sentatives put in a great deal of work to
make sure it stays that way. However,
the fact remains that the RSM Freshers’
dinner was a step too far for many ob-
servers, and has not improved the RSM’s
poor reputation for similar events.

