politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
6 felix Friday 9 November 2007
Politics
Politics Editor – Li-Teck Lau
Pakistan: state of emergency
Kadhim Shubber reports on General Musharraf’s efforts to hold onto power in times of growing dissent
H
ey readers, guess what?
That’s right there’s more
political turmoil in the
world. Even more sur-
prising, it’s because of
dictators; they’re more trouble than
they’re worth aren’t they? This week
we’re in Pakistan.
Last Saturday, nearly a week ago,
President Pervez Musharraf declared
emergency rule and suspended the
country’s constitution. Troops have
taken over TV and radio stations and
independent channels have gone off-
air. The Supreme Court judges in Paki-
stan condemned the move and as a re-
sult are being confined to the Supreme
Court. Whether this means they aren’t
allowed to leave the building or they
are being forced to sit in a courtroom
and finally figure out what happened
to Maddie, I just don’t know.
In addition the acting head of the
party of exiled former PM Nawaz Sharif
was arrested, senior lawyers have been
detained and elections planned for
January have been delayed. Police and
paramilitaries manned checkpoints
around the parliament and presiden-
tial palace in the capital, Islamabad, on
Sunday morning. Martial law has been
introduced in all but name.
The reason for these bold moves is
that President Musharraf is increas-
ingly desperate to hold onto power. He
is facing increasing opposition from Is-
lamic militants and the judiciary. The
Supreme Court has taken several deci-
sions against the government recently.
Crucially, correspondents say, it has
been hearing legal challenges to the
president’s re-election in October and
there was fear in the government that
it would rule against him.
Luckily for Musharraf the U.S. and
the U.K are more concerned about his
commitment to the war on terror rath-
er than his commitment to democracy.
If you’re expecting similar sanctions to
those imposed on Burma recently then
don’t hold your breath. The U.S. and
the U.K would like to see free and fair
elections but given the choice between
an undemocratic ally and democratic
non-ally, democracy never wins.
The question I hear you all scream-
ing is ‘what does Musharraf have to say
for himself?’ He gave a speech around
midnight on Saturday in which he at-
tempted to justify the actions, arguing
that the measures were necessary to
fight terrorism and “preserve the dem-
ocratic transition that I initiated eight
years back”.
Well there are two things to take
from this. On the one hand Pakistan is
battling Islamic militants and recently
attacks have increased in number and
ferocity. So when Musharraf claims
that there’s a problem with terror-
ists, he’s not lying. However declaring
emergency rule does little to help fight
militants. What’s really important is
his idea that he is trying to “preserve
the democratic transition”. Initially
Musharraf was not entirely unpopular.
He had won public consent to his rule
but now that he’s facing increasing op-
position he requires drastic measures
to keep himself in power.
What will be the result of these
measures? Well there are 3 possi-
bilities. Musharraf and his opponents
could all dig their heels in, resulting in
civil strife and a decrease in civil liber-
ties. The U.S. will most likely try and
persuade Musharraf that this is not the
best course of action but it remains to
be seen whether Musharraf will try to
hold onto power at ‘all costs’. Another
possible result is that Musharraf will be
ousted from power. Certainly his oppo-
nents seem to outnumber his friends
nowadays and public opposition is
likely to grow in the face of emergency
rule. In this case it will fall to former
Prime Ministers Benazir Bhutto and
Nawaz Sharif to introduce democracy.
Do not be fooled however into think-
ing that these two persons represent a
beacon of hope. They are unlikely to
work well together and their terms in
Pres Musharraf has come under critisism from his own people for being so intimately involved with the US war on terrorism
Contrary to the popular myth that there
is no world outside South Kensington, Fe-
lix Politics aims to bring you just a sam-
ple of the highlights from the lives of the
other 6 billion people on Earth.
A case of bad head counting
Prime Minister Gordon Brown has found
himself in another quagmire, this time
over immigration. The office of national
statisticsreviseditsestimateofforeignna-
tionals working in the UK from 800,000
to 1.5m. Councils across the country are
now calling for an increased budget to
cope with the extra numbers. 92.1% of
Britain’s ethnic make up is Caucasian.
Petrol gets more expensive
Oil hit a new high of US$98 on Wednes-
day, edging ever nearer to the psycho-
office – admittedly with a democratic
mandate – were plagued with allega-
tions of corruption and bad govern-
ance. Finally, the solution which will
allow for the greatest stability is a pow-
er-sharing agreement between Mush-
arraf and Bhutto. The U.S. backs this
strongly and it would allow Pakistan to
move towards democracy slowly and
in a stable fashion. However Mushar-
raf’s recent moves show that he is all
but ready to ignore the lessons of his-
tory and go down in flames as a tyran-
nical dictator.
All I can say to you readers is we can
only wait and see.
The week gone by in six handy paragraphs
logical triple figure mark. Consequently,
the US dollar has fallen to a 26 year low
relative to the Pound Sterling, whilst se-
curities like gold are trading near all time
highs.
Finland school massacre
7 pupils were killed this week in a school
shooting in Finland hours after the gun-
man posted a video on YouTube. Finland
has the third highest per capita gun own-
ership in the world, though gun related
crime in the north European country is
rare. The shootings comes a week after 2
were shot dead in a school in Cleveland
and months after 32 were gunned down
in a university in Virginia, America’s
worst student massacre.
Sarkozy repairs relations with
US
French President Nicolas Sarkozy arrived
in the US for talks with his counterpart
George W Bush with the hope of thaw-
ing relations since France’s opposition to
war in Iraq. Sarkozy’s style and direction
has won him many admirers in America’s
Republican party, including Presidential
hopeful Rudi Giuliani. However, such
diplomacy may prove fruitless as many
believe Republican control of the White
House will be lost in next year’s election.
M Sarkozy confirmed his divorce from
wife of 11 years Cecilia last month.
Iran has 3,000 centrifuges
In greater defiance of US and European
opinion, Iran has announced that it pos-
sesses 3,000 centrifuges for uranium
enrichment. It is the second such claim
within a month by President Ahmadina-
jad,andcomesdaysaftertheUNimposed
new sanctions on the country whilst also
calling for a halt of all such operations.
Ahmadinajad added, “they must know
that Iranians don’t care about the sanc-
tions, and Iranian people will not back
one inch from their nuclear rights”.
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor
And finally, Thaliand
Over a year since democratically elected
Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra was
ousted in a peaceful military coup, Thai-
land is once again gearing itself for poll-
ing. The leader of the largest party in the
Thai parliament, Samak Sundaravej, has
accused the instigators of the take over of
not being able to fully justify their coup.
Shinawatra, now in self imposed exile in
the UK and proud owner of Manchester
City football club, had been labelled cor-
rupt and incompetent.
Thaksin in exile in the UK
Ahmadinajad defies the west

