science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 9 November 2007
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Shiny science equipment. All very professional, but as with any proper home-built rig they’ve come up with some ”innovative” solutions for non-
essential bits. Like bulldog clips to hold the curtains up
Cool science: superbad superfluids
Next time you walk into your build-
ing at Imperial, keep your eyes open
for the signs leading to the research
labs. Mech Eng has the provocatively
named “Vibration Technology Centre”
and “Lubrication Laboratory,” and you
know something good is going on at the
“Creep and Fatigue Laboratory.” But
you can easily finish your career as a
student without ever going through the
doors of any these places, which means
you’re missing out on the coolest stuff
on campus. If you could go through the
keyhole you’ll find the biggest, most
cutting-edge machines, hidden away
within the labs of Imperial.
The coolest machine at Imperial has
got to be found where temperatures
hover around 675 nanoKelvin (just
above absolute zero) at the Centre
for Cold Matter in the Department of
Physics. Research Associate Jos Ding-
jam and a team of three PhDs handle
this machine, which goes by the myste-
rious name of “The Science Chamber”.
The Science Chamber is part of a
much bigger rig, but it gets its name
since “that’s where the science hap-
pens,” says Dingjam. It’s a vacuum
chamber where they create a cloud of
super-cooled rubidium atoms, known
as a Bose-Einstein condensate.
The atoms are intensely cooled by
lasers until they are all at their lowest
possible quantum energy state, where
things start to get very weird. In this
state they can’t be distinguished from
each other in any way—they exist in
the same location and with the same at-
tributes—so they form a kind of super-
atomic blob that behaves in ways that
we in the normal temperature range
can’t imagine. For example, since the
Our plucky reporter delves deep into the Centre for Cold Matter to investigate the “Science Chamber”
atoms in the blob all move in exactly
the same way, the blob has no interior
friction, which leads to cool superfluid
behaviour like flowing uphill.
Inside the chamber, the cloud of
atoms is wrangled into shape by the
magnetic field formed by an atom chip;
a square piece of gold-plated silicon,
with tiny wires carved into its gleam-
ing gold surface. This gives the team
enough control over the cloud to split
it in two and study how the wave pat-
terns interfere with one another.
Like many of the coolest machines
at Imperial, the Science Chamber is a
home-built rig, and it shows. It’s set in
a room-filling metal rack, enclosed by
black curtains held up with big bulldog
clips. The top of the rack is filled with
various power supplies and heat sinks
that handle the vast wattage needed to
keep the lasers burning and the cur-
rents flowing.
Radiating around the chamber is a
web of tiny mirrors, prisms and lenses
that get the lasers into the shape, place,
and state where they are needed. The
lasers are set up so that the beams are
not dangerous for day-to-day work,
but the team nevertheless wears pro-
tective eyewear when reconfiguring
the beams to avoid the risk of boiling
retinas.
All this power is necessary to cre-
ate an environment within the Science
Chamber so extreme that it can sup-
port a Bose-Einstein condensate, the
so-called fifth state of matter. In a place
like this, the motto is “Forget the elec-
tricity bill, full speed ahead.”
Flora Graham
“Mech Eng has
the provocatively
named ‘Vibration
Technology
Centre’ and
‘Lubrication
Laboratory’ ”
“The team
wears protective
eyewear to avoid
boiling their
retinas”
All that glisters... Well, in this case it’s better than normal; at least this
silicon chip (used to split the cloud of cold atoms) is covered in gold

