T
wo o’clock in the morning. I had
got home from an amazing night
out and was falling asleep when I
heard people running in the corri-
dor. It was a Friday night and we
were Freshers, so I thought nothing of it; I turned
over and pulled the duvet tighter around me.
Literally seconds later I was woken from my
doze by the sound of loud, unnatural thump
accompanied by splintering wood. I sat bolt
upright. Listening intently I couldn’t hear any-
thing other the muffled sounds of people talk-
ing. Humph. I decided that I wasn’t getting up;
they’d woken me up and I didn’t want to get
involved if they’d broken something!
10 minutes later, I was blissfully slipping into
sleep when I was woken yet again by people
running down the corridor. This time I marched
to the door, and violently threw open my door,
ready to give whoever it was an earful. How-
ever, I was stopped in my tracks when I came
face to face with paramedics sprinting along
the corridor and disappearing into my friend’s
room, only metres from my own. I felt sick,
and very almost was; I knew immediately that
something awful had happened.
I can remember stupid details from that night
so vividly, the smell of the wooden doorframe I
leaned against and the pyjamas I was wearing as
I stood shaking in my doorway whilst each sec-
ond ticked slowly by. Some agonising minutes
later, I saw one of my closest friends stretchered
past me. It was then I learned that he had tried
to hang himself. The splintering noise from ear-
lier was people breaking down his door, and the
muffled voices were them saving his life.
I didn’t go back to sleep that night; I sat cold
and shivering on the foot of my bed, with a
multitude of emotions that running through me.
That night was 6 years ago, as I was approach-
ing the end of my first term at university, but it
is etched into my memory forever.
My friend was lucky; he survived, and after
confronting his issues is actually one of the hap-
piest people I know today. Unfortunately, this
is not an uncommon story; many people have,
or know friends with, mental health issues. The
Times recently reported that the University of
Cambridge was reviewing its counselling pro-
vision after this term saw the highest rate of sui-
cide at the university for over a decade. How-
ever, Cambridge has one of the best counselling
services among the UK’s universities.
The Oxford Centre for Suicide Research has
published papers showing that suicides rates are
highest in the 18 to 21 demographic, the very
demographic that makes up the majority of uni-
versity students. The centre highlighted the fact
that student life is a period of transition. How-
ever ready someone feels to move away from
home, there are significant changes that occur.
Time spent as a student is an ‘in-between pe-
FEATURE
FELIX
10
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
riod’ in life; you transition from depending on
your family for many things including money to
fully fledged independence. And this whole pe-
riod is time-limited; you have to make the most
of what you can and everything is all orientated
to an end-goal, a degree and “the passport to the
next stage in life.” Caught up in this world of
practical, social and academic challenges, com-
bined with the often “risky behaviour” associat-
ed with student living and the learning process,
the stresses and strains that can take their toll.
The reported suicides of Cambridge students
also highlights a perceived problem amongst
high performing universities such as Imperial.
It is therefore important to note that despite the
media’s opinions, the centre found that “con-
trary to earlier findings and popular belief,
suicide rates in Oxford and Cambridge Univer-
sity students do not differ from those in other
young people.”
Universities across the board therefore all
have a responsibility to look after the mental
health of their students. But what makes some
students more vulnerable than others? Is this
simply random, or is it something to do with
the kind of personalities universities attract?
Professor Laycock, Head of Medicine Years
1 and 2, suggests that it is not, deeming our
students to be ‘highly competitive’, who tend
to ‘consider everything much more seriously’
than other young people.
Mental health problems within the medical
school are common, although many conditions
go unreported. This week, Felix spoke to Dr
Mike Schachter, Senior Welfare Tutor for the
medical school. He believes the problem to be
widespread across the UK, and not more preva-
lent in Imperial. “There is no national compari-
son but in my own experience of a number of
other [medical] schools the percentage here is
similar to other places in the UK.”
Whilst Imperial might not have a medical
school less mentally healthy than other medi-
cal schools in the UK, the same might not be
able to be said about other colleges and uni-
versities across Britain. The type of personality
universities attract might have something to do
with this. The concept of personality types is
a modern and often controversial one. In the
1950s, the idea of ‘Type A and Type B’ person-
ality first emerged, and has remained in popular
psychology ever since.
Type A personalities are the ‘stress junkies’
of this world. They are highly ambitious, high-
ly competitive and often workaholics: a type of
person arguably not uncommon at a university
like Imperial. Type B personalities, conversely,
are easy going, relaxed and unhurried – people
who possibly wouldn’t cope with the intensely
competitive environment Imperial creates.
Type A personalities, so the theory goes, are
much more likely to experience problems with
mental health, as well as heart disease.
The idea of personality typography is very
controversial, with much of the scientific world
shunning its credibility. Many believe that the
human condition is far too complex to be neatly
sorted into two categories. Of course, nobody
can deny that students at Imperial are highly
driven, ambitious individuals. This drive to
succeed will of course put added pressure on
the individual, contributing to possible mental
health issues.
The most important thing to remember that
one mental health disorder is not the same as
another. Mental health issues encompass a
wide range of conditions affecting a person’s
emotions and well-being. There is difference
between ‘anxiety and worry about exams’,
and more serious disorders such as depression
(the most common psychological problem ex-
perienced by Imperial students). Perhaps the
high-pressure environment that Imperial offers
could cause students to feel anxious, but no-
body can seriously suggest that such an envi-
ronment can be a sole cause of depression (or
any other mental health issue – after all the vast
majority of Imperial graduates are well-adjust-
ed, healthy individuals). Depression is a com-
plicated illness, with many interplaying facets,
including genetics and predisposing factors
(possibly personality type), as well as stressors
and life events. High-pressure environments
may exacerbate a problem that already exists.
Mental illness is probably more common
among your peers then you think, but there is
still such a stigma attached to having a mental
illness that people still refrain from discussing
it openly. As Rethink, a mental health charity,
excellently defines it, “Stigma is something
judged by others as a sign of disgrace and
something that sets a person apart from others.”
When something such as mental illness is
stigmatised, the issues will be avoided. This
silence, and unwillingness to understand the
problems, often makes people feel ashamed,
and sometimes prevents people from seeking
help or even admitting they have a problem. It
is important that people address their issues.
My friend felt he couldn’t be open and ap-
proach someone about his problems. He could
pad down the corridor, duvet wrapped around
him, to come and sit on the end of my bed and
gossip about menial things but he couldn’t tell
me about his inner demons. Overcoming the
stigma of mental illness will be a challenge,
but increased openness and understanding will
help prevent a repeat of those events which
occurred 6 years ago.
Let’s be more open
about mental illness
Slobodan Radosavljevic
Lizzie Crouch on the stigmas often
attached to mental illness
“High-pressure environments
may exacerbate a problem that
already exists”
Imperial provides a range of support for students. Email counselling@imperial.ac.uk if you have
Friday 03 december 2010

