FELIX 11
FEATURE
How much support does Imperial provide?
T
here are three main places
that you can initially seek out
help:
The Student Counselling Service
offers free, confidential counselling
on a short term basis to all stu-
dents of Imperial College London.
It is found at South Kensington,
Hammersmith and Silwood Park
Campuses. Appointments can be
made by calling 020 7594 9637,
emailing counselling@imperial.
ac.uk or by going to reception on
Level 4, Sherfield Building, South
Kensington Campus.
The Imperial College Union Advice
Centre is a confidential centre in-
dependent from the college, de-
signed to give advice on all sorts of
welfare issues, including personal
safety, sexual health, alcohol and
drug issues. The Centre is located
in the Union building (mezzanine
level.) It is open 10am-5pm Mon-
day to Friday.
The Imperial College Health Cen-
tre provides 24 hour care for NHS
registered students in conjunc-
tion with the local afterhours GP
service. It is found at 40 Princes
Gardens, by the South Kensington
Campus. As well as general medi-
cal care (including mental health
issues) students can get help with
stress and study difficulties. Stu-
dents can also gain access to a
Consultant Psychiatrist, part-time
Counsellors, Psychotherapists and
Physiotherapists via referral from a
member of medical staff.
Professor Denis Wright, Dean of
Students at Imperial, oversees the
Welfare Services at Imperial. What
does he think of the services avail-
able to Imperial students? “Hope-
fully it’s getting better, and I think
it’s pretty good now.”
Until last year, the number of
counsellors at Imperial’s Counsel-
ling Service had been consistently
quite low. This was reflected in a
ratio of 1 counsellor to 4375 stu-
dents. This ratio was well below the
Association for University and Col-
lege Counselling’s recommended
ratio of 1:3000, as well as ratios
seen at other universities. Although
he has no control over our NHS run
health centre, Professor Wright
made a bid to increase number of
counsellors available to students
by increasing their numbers at the
Counselling Service. “Now we have
a much healthier [ratio], but I’d still
like it to be higher,” said Professor
Wright.
“[The increase in number of coun-
sellors] was in spite of the fact I
had to make a 5% cut in the wel-
fare budget. So I actually put more
money into disabilities and coun-
selling,” he explained, “We don’t
know what the [spending] cuts will
be like, but I’m certainly going to
defend [these changes] to the hilt.”
When I asked whether these servic-
es are vital to Imperial, he replied
simply “Well I think so.”
“Demand for counselling is in-
creasing slowly but steadily.” It’s
difficult to pin down a specific rea-
son for this increase; it could be
greater publicity about the services
offered at Imperial, greater anxiety
about jobs, or a multitude of other
reasons.
What is Imperial’s recommenda-
tion if you have a problem? “Please
go and see somebody.” The help
is there from different people
throughout Imperial; the wardens in
your halls, your personal tutor and
the confidential Student Counsel-
ling Service are just a few that are
there to help.
Living with depression in the family
“I tore myself to pieces because I couldn’t be perfect”
A
second year undergraduate
spoke to Felix about his life
with mental illness. He has suf-
fered with a diagnosed mental health
disorder in the past, and still battles
with the aspects of the disorder to this
day.
“When I was 14, I started self harming.
I didn’t do it very often. It kind of [hap-
pened sporadically] around until I was
18 and half,” he explained. “The way I
saw it was that self harm was a way to
cope with how I felt inside. I didn’t like
myself and I didn’t like what I did. I’m
very critical of myself. If something’s
not done perfectly, it’s not good enough.
And so self-harm was a way of punish-
ing myself. I’d sit there and just look at
it. I used to sit there stroking them as a
reminder that I’d done this to myself and
that this was my punishment.”
It was just before his 19th birthday
that he “started having panic attacks
about [his] mortality,” and approached
his own doctor in search of something
that might help. However, even after be-
ing put on antidepressants, he got pro-
gressively worse. “I was self harming a
few times a day, to quite bad levels. I
was crying all day, I could barely get out
of bed. I would sit in a corner all day
looking out into space.”
Eventually he was sent to a psychiatrist
who assessed him. In less than a year, he
saw a few different psychiatrists and at
one time was on 10 pills a day. Life is
now significantly better but he still strug-
gles occasionally. “I’m repeating the sec-
ond year because I couldn’t deal with it
last year. I tore myself to pieces because I
couldn’t be as perfect as I wanted to be. I
know I cant attain perfection, I won’t get
100% in every exam but you do look at
the people around you, and [sometimes]
you can’t attain their levels.
When I asked whether he talks openly
about his mental health, he replied, “My
policy is if somebody asks, I won’t lie. I
T
he worst thing about thinking
about my sister is that I automati-
cally associate her with depres-
sion. My most loved one cannot find
any value in life, so much so that being
alive is a dread she faces everyday and
the thought of death is her only comfort .
I cannot help but feel guilty for writ-
ing this article, I feel like I am exposing
a shameful secret, even though I know
I’m not. Despite a modern acceptance of
its prevalence, there remains an uncon-
scious stigma that won’t be shaken off.
When my family found out, her diag-
nosis came with news that she tried to
take her own life. We each felt differently
about what happened. My parents, from
a different culture, put her “stupidity”
down to the fact that she must have been
disheartened due to her drop-out from
university – not comprehending that this
was a result and not cause of depres-
sion. They still don’t even understand
what depression is. My eldest sibling
believed that she needed to be distracted
and doesn’t understand why she doesn’t
agree that she should try to get better.
I felt broken having nearly lost my
sister but what is worse is constantly
dreading a phonecall confirming what
nearly happened, because with depres-
sion there is no getting better. There is
only being able to cope or not.
The biggest shock was the impact of
her depression on my life. This hap-
pened during my overwhelming first
year at Imperial. Aside from distracting
me from studies, I suddenly felt more
isolated than I already was.
won’t hide the truth. The way I see it, is
that this has happened to me and this is
part of who I am. If you want to know me
for who I am and this comes up, then you
accept it. If you don’t, then tough.”
“I feel that you wouldn’t really un-
derstand it unless you’ve been through
it yourself. I’m not going to ask anyone
to go through that, I don’t want anyone
to go through things such as that. The
main thing I suppose is that it’s not a
weakness. Sure it’s not a nice thing, a
good thing, but it’s not a bad thing. You
shouldn’t beat yourself up over it; you
shouldn’t run away from it. It is what it
is. There is help out there.”
What restrains me most from confiding
in friends is their reaction if I expressed
my judgement of the situation. Things
most people have said to me are differ-
ent to the feelings I have. These thoughts
have taken up so much of me, it seems
like they are part of who I am. If people
don’t understand how I can think in this
way it feels like they misunderstand
me. Her depression has dramatically af-
fected the way I just generally perceive
things in life overall; although not for the
worse, or better. It’s just different now.
YOUR STORIES
any concerns
Friday 03 december 2010
Professor Denis Wright oversees
Welfare Services at Imperial
Imperial College London

