SCIENCE
FELIX
12
Science Editors: James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Finding moonshine
by Marcus du Sautoy
And a few suggestions...
Schrödinger’s lolcat
Sharks arrived in the Mediterranean because they
took a wrong turn. Dr Noble, who led the research,
said: “They might have gone a considerable way...
Then they start trying to turn east and north and the
first place you can go east, of course, is the Straits
of Gibraltar.” The sharks found here are most simi-
lar to those near New Zealand, about 12,000 miles
away!
In this whirlwind of mathematics, du Sautoy pro-
vides us with an irresistible combination of anec-
dotes, mathematical mysteries and history. Articu-
lately conveying his own love for the subject whilst
also providing us with a plethora of mathematics, he
weaves an intricate and emotive tale of the funda-
mental questions in mathematics.
Marcus du Sautoy is a brilliant populiser of mathe-
matics and author of several other books, one of his
greatest strengthes being that he never patronises
the reader, maintaining a belief that the wider public
can and should understand maths.
It is this complete faith in the reader that makes
the book so compelling, as is du Sautoy’s humble
writing; he is personable and describes his passion
for and reliance on the subject. It is clear, however
that perhap maths needs Sautoy as much as he
needs it. Read this book – I challenge you not to
learn something. Katya-Yani Vyas
Want to save the planet
and eat meat? Eat Man
Samuel Furse
One thing that is often said by vegetarians is
that meat farming is not sustainable. Figures
are not (scientifically) clear, though what is
obvious is that farm production of animals for
human consumption requires a lot more in the
way of nitrogenous input than for arable farm-
ing – not least because the animals we farm
are chiefly herbivores and feeds given to them
must themselves be grown. In practice this is
achieved from grain not suitable for human
consumption (e.g. because the harvest period
was too damp). I do not know what we would
do with such grain if we did not give it to ani-
mals – we would have to find some use for it
in order to avoid just wasting it; its entry into
the market is weather-driven and so pretty un-
avoidable.
So, we have meat production requiring more
resources per kilogram produced than for ar-
able production. Good news for those who did
biology A-level is that all the stuff on the en-
ergy levels in food webs they learnt has been
vindicated as not being wrong. On this basis
it seems not too much of a leap to go to meat
being unsustainable: we have over six billion
mouths to feed and only a limited amount of
fertile land that is divided up in so unegalitar-
ian a manner as to make the French strike for a
century. It is easy to reach the conclusion that
there are too many people for satisfactory meat
production.
In fact, taking away technology of any se-
rious kind, and returning humans to the food
web structure from whence we came, it has
been calculated that there would be a popula-
tion of around 10k across the globe. This is ap-
proximately the same number as go in and out
of Piccadilly Circus station every day. As the
current world population is approaching four
Friday 03 DEcEMBER 2010
You won’t believe it...
orders of magnitude larger than this, it rather
begs the question of how this has happened.
Clearly clean water, medicine, education, shel-
ter and so on are important factors in this but
so, I believe, is food. I understand there is evi-
dence for the start of arable farming in either
the cradle of humanity, or further east in what
we now call the Middle East. This was the time
when humans stopped being nomadic hunter-
gatherers and started living in one place. The
wheat was bred to give the right kind of husk
and so on, and thus fed the population at the
time. Presumably this, although a break from
what had gone before, was sustainable as the
population grew and since then humans depen-
dent upon farming for food have dominated.
A few thousand years of refining and develop-
ment, including the use of draught animals to
do the work we could not or did not want to do,
took us to the middle ages. Soon after then, we
had ploughing. There was uproar in the 16th
century about ploughs. People did not trust
machines – why should they when they were
doing their work? There were similar fears
about the use of animals to pull ploughs – what
if all the animals die?
There were few more developments until
the end of the 19th century at which point the
revolution of mechanisation started to take
hold. Eating meat is perfectly sustainable of
course, provided we have the fertilisers (thanks
to the Haber process) and methods with which
to farm it. The problem is that food produc-
tion follows market forces, including demand.
Over thousands of years we have used cogni-
tive intelligence to increase food availability.
This has lifted a limit on the proliferation of
our species. Thus, it is not crops or ploughing
or even peculiarly-shaped bovines that are un-
sustainable, but you and I.
Perhaps we should eat each other.
Hello and welcome to Felix’s new, unimagi-
natively-titled, Science Fiction Column. I’ve
always been passionate about this topic and I
hope that I’ll be able to pass some of this ex-
citement on to you.
Each week I’ll try to entertain you with my
thoughts on films, television shows and books
in the genre which, for good or bad reasons, I
found memorable. I’d thought, however, that
I’d start with something more general and de-
vote today’s column to science fiction’s rela-
tionship with science.
The genre is often criticised for its lack of
scientific accuracy. I think that this is quite un-
fair: science fiction is just that, fiction. If I want
to learn something I pick up a textbook, not a
Star Wars DVD.
I believe that the main purpose of this genre
is to try to predict the future, to describe how
people will adapt to the new technology in this
future and, most importantly, to entertain.
A good grasp of science may help in the first
two of these goals, though, since the future is
so unpredictable, even this may not always be
the case, but it certainly does not help in the
third.
Being scientifically accurate isn’t a require-
ment for a good story. Hardly anybody would
argue that The Matrix was a bad film despite
the ridiculous concept of machines using hu-
man brains as a power source. Conversely, last
year’s Moon won wide acclaim for its plausi-
bility but I found it almost unwatchable due to
the antagonists’ completely illogical actions.
Far more important than science are interesting
characters and a good plot.
That is why the one demand that I do make
of science fiction is that its made-up science be
at least logical and easy to understand. I hate
the ‘technobabble’ so commonly found in Star
Trek and Doctor Who.
It adds nothing to the story to have the char-
acters spouting nonsensical and vaguely tech-
nical-sounding words for half of an episode.
It also takes away all dramatic tension if you
know that however perilous the situation it will
probably be solved by some never-before-seen
and never-again-to-be-mentioned technology.
It’s not that I don’t like Star Trek and Doctor
Who: I just think that they’re at their best when
they tone down their ‘science’.
Don’t get me wrong, my favourite sub-genre
of science fiction is the so called ‘hard SF’,
where believability and scientific accuracy are
the most important factors. It can be very re-
freshing to get away from the bug-eyed mon-
sters so prevalent in the sci-fi that most people
are familiar with and see characters dealing
with such mundane restrictions as the speed of
light.
But I also appreciate the far greater scope
that breaking a few rules of physics gives, such
as intrigues spanning galactic empires and epic
space battles. I guess that I just like the best of
both worlds.
Maciej Matuszewski
Science
Fiction
Column
I for one would rather eat Daisy (pictured) than save the planet by eating vegetables.

