felix
FRIDAY 03 december 2010
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It’s been 27 years since the first handheld por-
table mobile phone came out and since then
it has revolutionised the world. With the de-
velopment of GSM technology and seamless
international roaming, it is now possible for
any two people, on different corners of the
Earth not connected by wires, to talk to each
another at any time simply by dialling a se-
quence of numbers on their phone. The mo-
bile phone has torn down geographical and
national barriers and made the whole world
feel a lot smaller.
Google have launched two apps, which aim
to bring down not only communication, but
language barriers too. They promise to take
Douglas Adam’s ‘Babel Fish’ and Star Trek’s
‘Universal Translator’ out of the realm of sci-
ence fiction and into reality.
The Google Goggles application, currently
available for iOS & Android, allows you to
read in a foreign language. Using your camera
phone, you can take photos of signs or menus
in another language – the application then uses
optical character recognition (OCR) technol-
ogy to automatically extract all the text from
the image and uses translation technology to
translate it into English (or your preferred lan-
guage). The application currently only supports
Latin-based languages such as English, French
and Italian, but the goal is to eventually support
non-Latin based languages such as Arabic and
Chinese once OCR technology has been devel-
oped further.
The Android-only Google Translate appli-
cation allows you to say something in English
and it’ll read it back over the speakerphone in
a different language. It works the other way
too – your conversation partner could say
something in a different language and the app
will attempt to translate it and read it back to
you in English. This means you can have a
conversation with anyone, even if you know
totally different languages. The application
uses the voice recognition and speech synthe-
sis technology built into Android, hence why
it’s currently unavailable on the iPhone. The
range of languages supported is impressive,
with a full 30 operational including Chinese,
Russian and Welsh. I personally found the
voice recognition to be slightly off and the
interface to be slightly clunky, but Google’s
CEO Eric Schmidt demoed an improved
“conversation mode” interface in September,
which should make the application more prac-
tical to use.
Ultimately, the usefulness of translation
applications depends on their accuracy and
speed. Every GCSE Spanish student who
has tried using an online translator for their
coursework knows that translators aren’t per-
fect. Compound that with errors introduced
during optical character or voice recognition,
and the accuracy of the translations can be
pretty poor at times. Furthermore, it still takes
10-15 seconds to perform a translation using
Goggles or Translate, not ideal if you’re try-
ing to hold a face-to-face conversation with
someone or to understand all 20 items on a
restaurant menu.
Goggles and Translate give us a glimpse of a
future where the mobile phone will allow peo-
ple of different cultures and languages to com-
municate seamlessly. They show us a future
where you could travel and not have to worry
about ordering snails rather than chicken. It’ll
take some further advances in OCR and trans-
lation technology before it becomes practical,
but those days can’t be far off.
Free App of the Week
iOS - Google Mobile for iPhone
While Google doesn’t have just a Goggles app on the
iPhone, the Google mobile app for iOS has Goggles
and Voice search built-in, along with other big G stuff.
Google Goggles on Android brings all the picture, text
and photo-based powers of search to green machine.
Snap, search, get the answer. Simples.
Android - Google Goggles
Google to make learning
languages redundant?
Kin-Hing Lo
Whether you regard Julian Assange as a feck-
less self-aggrandiser or a champion of much
needed disclosure, few can dispute that he has
a knack for getting attention.
The latest release from the WikiLeaks proj-
ect is a collection of communications between
American diplomats and the political heads of
a series of administrations. Much like the pre-
viously released Iraq War Logs, the ratio of sig-
nal to noise is heavily skewed towards noise.
In the current release we see a similar slew of
unsurprising revelations that vary from the ba-
nal to the humorous.
The released communiqués superficially read
as a political edition of Heat magazine: “Silvio
Berluscioni likes to party!”, “Medvedev is the
Robin to Putin’s Batman!”, “Prince Andrew is
rude and elitist!”. There is nothing surprising in
the reality that diplomats are only human, who
gossip and bicker as much as any other group.
While seeing usually-guarded politicians
speaking frankly is novel, it doesn’t really edu-
cate us. The noise in these logs is a little more
subtle, but hints towards the profound.
The shift in China’s stance towards North
Korea, the Arabian perspective on Iran, and the
candid assessment of Israel’s position in the
Middle East, as well as Americans spying on
the UN, and the fight to save Gary McKinnon
— these topics are the signal amidst the noise,
and could have lasting impacts long after the
sniggers about rude royals fade away.
WikiLeaks: Heat edition
“The released
communiqués
read more
like a political
edition of Heat
magazine”
Marcus Shepheard
14

