FELIX Friday 03 DECEMBER 2010 17
BUSINESS
WHAT’S
THE FUTURE
FOR BP?
Why is BP a good choice for graduates?
Emma: We are interested in having a long term
relationship with Imperial graduates as many of
them have a desire to use their degree, and given
Imperial’s focus on high quality engineering and
science it is an extremely good match for us as an
organisation. The size and scale of the business
is hugely exciting, and the chance to be part of
a business which has over 80,000 people in over
100 countries is very energising. We have a high
calibre, 3-year graduate training program that
gives students the foundation they need to then
develop their technical or leadership careers.
Then there is the quality of the people at BP, not
just intellectually but in terms of their values and
their enthusiasm for what they do. The quality of
our people is what should ultimately influence a
student’s decision when choosing between com-
panies that on the surface look very similar.
Do you feel your graduate scheme offers you an
advantage over others, for example Shell?
Emma: All oil companies have a role to play in
attracting people to the oil and gas industry. We
have taken a pragmatic approach to how we hire
people, typically once per year. That has the ad-
vantage in that students create a cohort and set
of relationships that they can use throughout their
career. I think Shell’s training is also very high
quality, but it all comes down to the personality of
the organisation. The point about quality of peo-
ple is our strongest differentiator.
What would you say to someone who was put
off applying to BP due to the events of the
summer?
Emma: The incident in the Gulf of Mexico was
tragic and one that we as an organisation have
worked hard to overcome and ensure we restore
the region back to where it was. One of the key
drivers for people joining our organisation is to
be a part of that change, and to assist in develop-
ing BP going forward. Although there may be stu-
dents who choose not to apply, we are still seeing
that high quality individual applicant. Students
who have taken the time to understand what re-
ally happened over the summer will see how they
could be part of that change.
Oil companies encounter environmental, tech-
nical and political disasters. What sort of pro-
cesses does BP have in place to recover from
these and how do you plan for setbacks?
Peter: Setbacks aren’t inevitable. The oil and gas
industry is a hazardous one but has over the last
couple of decades become significantly safer. Our
track record on safety has been one of continual
improvement, in terms of both personal and pro-
cess safety. When there’s an incident like the one
in the Gulf of Mexico, one needs to step back and
see what has been learnt. It was a tragedy on both
a human and environmental scale, and there has
been a lot of focus in terms of the response to the
spill and the clean-up. We also need to consider
what we can learn from it. A very central part of
this is engineering and technology. Clearly there
are questions for BP and the industry about oil
spill response technology and expertise.
Also, the leading oil companies, by the nature
of what we do, operate on the frontiers – both po-
litical and technical. The places we go to find oil
and gas are becoming increasingly difficult and
deepwater drilling is a part of this.
But deepwater drilling has been happening for
years.
Peter: It has, although the trend has been to go
deeper and deeper. In the 1980’s the North Sea
was considered to be deep at 300-600ft. In the
1990’s the West of Shetlands was one of the new
deepwater provinces and that was at about 1000ft.
And now in the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa
the operations are at 5000-10000ft.
Is it true that at the onset of the Deepwater
Horizon spill, the Blow Out Preventer (BOP)
should have been activated by the Remotely
Operated Vehicle (ROV) but that the wrong
information was sent to the ROV and the oper-
ating valve was turned in the wrong direction?
Peter: There are a number of investigations ongo-
ing, and BP has carried out its own investigation.
It appears that there was no single cause of this
accident, but there was a complex and interlinked
series of failures: some mechanical, some human,
some engineering. The fact that the BOP didn’t
seal was one of the findings of that investiga-
tion. But there are numerous investigations tak-
ing place and we can’t really comment on those
outcomes.
Where else does BP presently search for oil?
Peter: The world’s energy demand is rising. The
International Energy Agency’s (IEA) latest pre-
diction is for an increase of around 45% over the
next 20 years.
The demand for oil continues to rise and in or-
der to replace depleted reserves and supply that
growth, it is still projected that many new sources
of oil and gas are required. So the international
energy industry is having to explore in ever more
difficult places including the frontiers of the deep
seas and oceans. These include Russia, Alaska,
GoM, Brazil, West Africa etc. You could also
think of frontiers in areas that are more geopoliti-
cally challenging.
Do you think it is riskier for BP to extract oil
from the Gulf of Mexico where there’s a big
media spotlight than it is in places like the In-
dian Ocean?
Peter: There are different risks in each area – geo-
political, security, technological. BP’s approach is
that wherever we work, we want to maintain the
same high standard.
BP has branded itself as “Beyond Petroleum”.
What does that mean?
Peter: BP is an integrated oil company. There’s
exploration and production, refining, marketing,
alternative energies, etc. The demand for oil and
gas continues to rise but there are signs that the
energy mix is changing. We expect that there is a
growing market for alternative energy and we aim
to be a significant player. “Beyond Petroleum”
was a message that was around some time ago and
what we would say now is we will be in the oil and
gas business for a long time but we are making
steps to try and establish a move with technology
in new alternative energy areas.
You don’t think “Beyond Petroleum” is a bit of
an overstatement when you are actually a pe-
troleum company?
Peter: We are a petroleum company but we do
also have a very active alternative energy busi-
ness - as demand for more oil and gas and energy
in general rises then companies need to adapt to
meet that demand.
Charles Betts talks to
Emma Hardaker-Jones and
Peter Duff about graduate
opportunities, the Deepwater
disaster and moving
“Beyond Petroleum”
Left: Emma Hardaker-Jones, Head of Resourcing & Policy
and Peter Duff, Senior Advisor, Projects and Capability
“The places we go to find
oil and gas are becoming
increasingly difficult”
Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Hamish Muir

