Jullian Assange plays invisible tennis
Wikileaks strikes once again and this time it
draws blood from not just the U.S. Wikileaks
is releasing up to 251, 287 confidential US em-
bassy cables and the cables reveal “lying, cor-
rupt, murderous leaderships from Bahrain to
Brazil”, Wikileaks figurehead Julian Assange
declared in an email. The leaked cables were
boasted to be 7 times larger than the leaked Iraq
logs in October. Wikileaks plan to release them
over the next few months and as of writing, 598
have been released. The US has been warning
countries around the world to brace for the
leak, according to the summary on Wikileaks’
Cablegate website.
Beijing and Pyongyang may not be as cosy
as it was once assumed, with Beijing’s re-
luctance to rein in its communist partner for
the recent transgressions against South Ko-
rea and its hawkish flirtation with war. The
leaked cables revealed that Beijing described
Kim Jong-il’s dictatorship as a ‘spoilt child’.
Amidst the silence Beijing keeps on the ter-
rorist acts of its official ally, Beijing sees the
North as an unstable variable in its region and
is ready for a North Korea without Kim and
a unification with the South. However it was
also revealed that China mounted hacking
attacks against Google, the Dalai Lama and
western government computers.
“Cut off the head of the snake”, urged Saudi
Arabia’s King Abdullah to the United States,
as King Abdullah together with his foreign
minister and Princes agreed that the Arab
country needs to cooperate with the US to
curb the rising influence of Iran in the region.
Saudi Arabia also implied that it is willing
to host the deployment of US nuclear weap-
ons to prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear
POLITICS
FELIX
18
Politics Editors: Hassan Joudi, Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Washington, we
have a problem
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Ecuador
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK)
has revealed a new nuclear plant and details about
its expanded nuclear programme. The plant which
was previously undetected has around several thousand
centrifuges. The DPRK says the plant is scheduled to
be opened in 2012 and will be used to generate electric-
ity. This claim appears to agree with a report from an
American scientist who was shown the plant last month.
He however says that it could be easily modified to pro-
duce weapons-grade uranium. Pyongyang’s revelations
is likely to increase tensions on the Korean peninsula
and comes days after the shelling of Yeonpyeong Island.
Pyongyang is desperate for international attention amidst
its increasing isolation in the international community.
North Korea
Ecuador has offered Wikileaks founder Assange resi-
dency in the South American republic and expressed
concerns about American activities in the country. Ec-
uador’s Foreign Minister Kintto Lucas invited Mr Assange
to present the documents and information he has through
the internet and attached no conditions to the offer of resi-
dency. Ecuador, which expelled two American diplomats
last year is likely to want to seek insight to an occasionally
rough relationship with the United States. Wikileaks has
recently released secret diplomatic cables on the internet
causing a worldwide furore and caused the United States
to review the security of embassy communications.
Russia
Russian President Dmitry Medvedev warns of a new
arms race between Russia and the West if NATO and
Moscow fail to agree on a joint missile shield. Russia
was invited to join the proposed missile shield following
the NATO summit at Lisbon, but question remains over the
command over the proposed shield. President Medvedev
also spoke of Russia’s declining population, corruption,
the Russian budget deficit
and the economy during
his address to the Russian
nation on Tuesday. Presi-
dent Medvedev also con-
founded expectations and
stayed silent over his po-
litical future, leaving some
analysts to believe that he
will not be running for re-
election in 2012 following
his lacklustre speech.
Friday 03 december 2010
of crazies and did not wake up early enough”
in a 2009 cable. No surprise seeing that Liam
Fox declared that the Tories’ were less reliant
on British Pakistani votes.
The U.S. blames the acquisition of the con-
fidential documents on the widespread access
to their Secret Internet Protocol Router Net-
work (Siprnet). Siprnet’s scope of access was
widened post-9/11 to enable more efficient
collaboration of information between intelli-
gence analysts, diplomats and security agents
in hope of preventing another 9/11 style at-
tack. However, The Times estimated that the
access was so widespread that up to 2.5 mil-
lion persons had access to the network, one of
them junior intelligence analyst Private Brad-
ley Manning, who downloaded the confiden-
tial cable data into an erased Lady Gaga CD.
Some of the revelations were of an outra-
geous or comical nature. Conservative re-
search thought that the public found then
shadow chancellor Osborne to be lacking
“gravitas” due to his high-pitched delivery.
US ambassador Louis Susman tried to evade
VAT on the new US embassy building but was
denied by Alistair Darling. Muammar Gaddafi
was revealed to have a phobia of flying over
open waters and is unable to climb more than
36 steps. Nicolas Sarkozy was dubbed “em-
peror with no clothes”.
Though the impact of the leak is irrevers-
ible, Politico thinks that the leak reveals noth-
ing “ugly or surprising” as it merely shows
“diplomats doing their proper jobs”. Even
as many of the cables involved damning US
criticism of other national leaders, Robert
Gates, the US Defence Secretary argued that
the diplomatic relationship with many coun-
tries would nevertheless “survive” as the “US
is the indispensable nation”.
power. The crown prince of Abu Dhabi also
likened Ahmadinejad to Hitler.
Brazil has been accused of covering up the
scope of terrorist threat in Brazil by giving
narcotic instead of terrorism charges.
No. 10 has been alerted by The White House
on the critical nature of some of the leaked
cables regarding the Conservatives prior to
their election. Mervyn King was reported to
have described David Cameron and George
Osborne as not grasping the pressure they
will face from various groups on their plan for
spending cuts (prophetically foreshadowing
the student protests perhaps?). King also criti-
cised both Cameron and Osborne as lacking
in depth beyond seeking strategies that im-
proved the Tories’ election chance. Mr Cam-
eron was also quoted as being critical of the
British Pakistani community: “we let in a lot
Ever since the new leader EDavid Miliband
stood up to the batting plate, how has Labour,
once preening in the glory days, adjusted to a
life as the Opposition?
After getting over the drama of usurping his
brother EDavid, EDavid had to face the inevi-
table mountain of conflict that was choosing a
fairly representative shady cabinet. Now, ad-
hering to his ‘youth’ line, EDavid has tried to
subtly belittle the age and mental capacity of
his predecessors by choosing a shady cabinet
with as few over-50s as possible. Then again
itself back into the hearts (or at least minds)
of the general populous? It seems the plat du
jour is a serving of “distancing themselves
from all previous decisions” with a sprinkling
of “championing the cause of anything Cool
Dave says because Dave C is a mean boy
who steals everybody’s lunch money. No re-
ally, and he also has lots and lots of money
and used to lie [allegedly] for a job so he’s
not trustworthy!”. Mind you, he did break his
ironclad promise to hold a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty… maybe there is some truth to
their rambling after all. He is still Cool Dave
though...
with an approximate mean age just shy of 50,
you have to wonder if this cabinet can be trust-
ed enough to crunch the numbers…
Allegedly, a source allegedly close to the
shady leader himself has implied that EDavid
has been reduced to looking for new policies in
‘The People’s Manifesto’, a classic textbook by
author Mark Thomas. But while policies such
as “the introduction of a ‘maximum wage’”
might get extra backing from the unions that
pushed him into power, EDavid still has a long
way to go before he has to face the ‘real’people
of ‘real Britain’.
And what exactly is Labour doing to bring
Will you join my (Mili)band?
Joseph Letts
Guo Heng Chin

