POLITICS
FELIX 19
Friday 03 december 2010
You’ve said previously that there is
a possibility of resolving the Arab-
Israeli conflict and it’s not an eternal
conflict that can’t be resolved. What
keeps you so optimistic?
First of all you have to see if there are
basic principles which people can agree
on to resolve the conflict. On the basic
principles, you have widespread agree-
ment, whether you look at the voting
record of the U.N. General Assembly,
whether you look at what the Arab
League has said, what the Organisation
of the Islamic Conference has said, or
whether you look at the advisory opin-
ion of the International Court of Justice.
You could look at a wide range of re-
spected and representative bodies and
they all seem to agree on how to resolve
the conflict, and judging from that re-
cord the main obstacle is Israel and the
United States. And, at least in the United
States, you can see significant shifts in
public opinion. We’re still in the early
stage but there seems to be the prospect
that we can reach public opinion if we’re
reasonable and if we’re principled. We
can reach public opinion and maybe
force a settlement on the Israelis who
are blocking it.
The Jerusalem Post published an ar-
ticle about the Justice Week here at
Imperial College, attacking it as anti-
Western and criticising some of the
choice of speakers and event themes.
Do you feel that they have a point or
are they unjustified in their attacks?
Well, first of all the Jerusalem Post is
not a newspaper. It’s just a propaganda
rack. Nobody takes it seriously. It’s
very rarely cited, nowadays. There was
a time when it was under fairly liberal
publishers up until the early nineties.
Then it was a reputable paper. But now,
you read it for laughs; it’s like the comic
section of the newspaper. Although, oc-
casionally, you know there’s an expres-
sion in English “Even a broken clock is
right twice a day,” and once or twice a
month there’s actually something in the
Jerusalem Post of some interest.
You frequently attack and deconstruct
Zionist propaganda, yet you seem un-
critical of Palestinian propaganda by
organisations such as Hamas. Do you
feel that this also needs to be decon-
structed?
Well, first of all, I’m old fashioned. You
don’t deconstruct, you critically analyse.
I think that people are using this ridicu-
lous French terminology and in French,
everything is empty.
So I critically analyse the Israeli pro-
paganda as though there is only one
fundamental issue, which is settling
the conflict. I don’t know much about
internal Israeli society. I follow public
opinion polls on support or not support
for the settlement but, in general, my
range is pretty limited. I’m interested
in the foreign policy issues and, other-
wise, I don’t particularly care. The same
thing with the Palestinians; I don’t really
know much about internal Palestinian
society. I’m just looking at who’s block-
ing the settlement.
In 2008 Israel banned you from enter-
ing the country for 10 years. Here in
the U.K., the government has also re-
cently banned individuals like Geert
Wilders and Zakir Naik. Are such
actions ever justified, or is there an
infringement on freedom of speech
when governments do these things?
No, they’re never justified. I’m not a flag
waver but probably it’s one of the virtues
of the United States that there’s a much
broader conception of liberty of speech.
The media are much narrower but at
least conceptually we’re pretty conven-
tional on issues of Freedom of Speech
and on the whole it’s much better. There
have been cases of political people
we’ve banned from entering the country.
But, in terms of range of viewpoints, it’s
pretty broad in the U.S.; at least what’s
permissible. That doesn’t mean there’s
a range of viewpoints on the television
or radio – no there is not. But what’s
permissible, and I think that’s sensible.
I mean the basic principles of John Stu-
art Mill’s ‘On Liberty’ I think is right.
The arguments he makes in free, unfet-
tered speech, I think are correct. I don’t
really accept there are any grounds for
banning anyone. But that doesn’t mean
you can’t have an opinion. You can say
that Geert Wilders is what he is; a really
nasty piece of work. But a nasty piece
of work should have the right to speak.
What would you say to people who
would describe you as delivering hate-
ful messages?
Well, what I would say is that people
have the right to deliver hateful mes-
sages. There’s not any prescription in
free speech only delivering love filled
messages. I happen to think they’re not
hateful, I happen to think they’re factu-
al. I happen to think they’re actually not
even particularly radical. They’re pretty
mainstream in my opinion. But even if
that were not the case and even if you in-
terpret them as being hateful, well there
are two possibilities. Either they’re hate-
ful of the abstract, in which case they
still have the right to say it, but then they
may be hateful in the specific sense that
you’re doing hateful things. So, you’re
evoking a hateful reaction. I hate injus-
tice – so I have a hateful message for
those committing injustice. I hate injus-
tice, I hate suffering. So it’s hateful, but
I think that’s permissible-hateful. But,
even if it were just hateful-hateful, it’s
still allowed. I’m sorry, but you have no
right to dictate to me what I have to say.
Thousands of students across the U.K.
participate in activities like Palestine
days, Gaza awareness weeks, fund-
raising or Boycott Israeli goods. They
believe they are making a positive dif-
ference. What would be your message
to them?
First of all, I have faith in the reasoning
capacities and judgement of young peo-
ple. I don’t really like to try to lecture
them on what they should do. I’ll give
my opinion but also I want to respect
other people’s political and intellectual
autonomy.
On the question of tactics, I support
the boycotts which are anchored in in-
ternational law. So, if the settlements
are illegal, settlement products are ille-
gal, marketing those products is illegal
and the protesting the marketing of il-
legal products from illegal settlements,
I think is perfectly legitimate. Under
international law, it’s illegal to transfer
weapons to a country which is a consis-
tent violator of human rights. Israel is,
according to Amnesty International, a
consistent violator of human rights and
Amnesty International says there has to
be a comprehensive total arms boycott
on Hamas and Israel. So, the protesting
of arms transfers from the U.K. to Israel,
I supported. That’s the law.
But when you start going towards po-
litical boycotts which include anything
and everything Israeli, I consider that
problematic because if you were saying
‘I’m boycotting anything Israeli until the
end of occupation’, I could see that. The
problem is people don’t say ‘until they
end the occupation.’ They say ‘we’re
boycotting anything Israeli’ and then
you’re not really clear. Do they want
to dismantle the occupation or do they
want to dismantle Israel? I don’t sup-
port dismantling Israel. Yes, Israel does
horrible things, but so does the U.K. and
whatever Israel does that’s horrible, it’s
a tiny fraction of what the U.S. does
that’s horrible every minute, of every
hour, of every day. So, since I don’t see
any boycotts calling for the dismantling
of the United States, or the dismantling
of the U.K. , then I’m not supporting the
dismantling of Israel. There’s a deliber-
ate ambiguity about whether you want
to end the occupation or whether you
want to end Israel.
“I’m sorry, but you have no
right to dictate to me what I
have to say.”
Last Friday, the Jewish-
American political
scientist Norman
Finkelstein gave a
lecture at Imperial about
the 2009 Gaza conflict
as part of Islamic
Society’s Justice Week.
A controversial figure, he
is infamous for arguing
that Israel is exploiting a
“Holocaust Industry” for
its own ends
“Whatever Israel
does that’s horrible,
it’s a tiny fraction of
what the U.S. does
[...] every minute”
on Hamas, boycotts and
liberty
Interview by
Hassan
Joudi
NORMAN
FINKELSTEIN
Kadhim Shubber

