HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 03 december 2010
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
Lolcat of teh week
EDITOR’S PICK
The Tuition Fee Vote
Thursday 9th December
On campus
The offshore challenge
Philip Heptonstall of the
Centre for Environmen-
tal Policy, Andy Hiorns
from the National Grid
and Adrian Fox of The
Crown Estate will debate
the challenges facing
attempts to harness en-
ergy from offshore wind
farms. Free but registra-
tion required in advance.
Email Sarah Lester via
s.lester@imperial.ac.uk
Carols by Candlelight
Would Christmas be Christmas without a carol ser-
vice? I think not. The Chaplaincy offer a chance to
reflect on the term just past, as well as mince pie
and drinks, at their annual Carol Service at Holy Trin-
ity Church. The service starts in darkness and then
a single candle is passed from person to person to
symbolize the shared light of the world. For further
information email Andrew Wilson at a.willson@impe-
rial.ac.uk
Holy Trinity Church
15 December 18:00-19:00
Room 1.31, RSM
07 December 17:30-19:00
If by some miracle you have failed to
spot the protests, sit-ins and university
occupations that have been occuring
over the past few weeks then it’s time to
finally take notice. The debate on higher
education will come to a climax this
Thursday as Parliament votes on proposals
to raise the tuition fee cap to £9,000.
Students across the country are planning
to protest in unprecedented numbers
against the proposals. Unless the Lib
Dems suddenly decide to honour their pre-
election pledge to oppose tuition fee rises,
the proposals are likely to pass.
Depending on your stance, students are either going to get shafted
really badly, or shafted kind of badly but with decent justification...
Uncertain Ratio
Artists from Goldsmiths College will transform the
Institute of Mathematical Sciences with a series of
installations, performances and experimental films.
The pieces will “contrast elements from a scientific
experiment with the mechanisms of film making”.
The event is open to all. Contact Peter Lewis via:
ims.goldsmiths@gmail.com
IMS, 53 Prince’s Gate
03 December 18:30-19:30
Union Notice
President’s Surgery
To be accessible and accountable to students, Alex
Kendall, the Union President, will hold weekly surgeries
where you can come and ask or talk about anything,
from academic or welfare issues to questions about the
bars, nightclub, clubs & societies or upcoming elections
and Union politics. The last surgery this term will be right
before the Christmas holidays. Maybe he’ll be giving
away presents? We can only hope so...
Student Hub, Union Building
Friday 17 December 12:30-14:00
Got an issue with the Union? Alex
Kendall, The President, is all ears
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Layout/Design Editor
Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas James Goldsack Business Editors Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos Politics Editors Hassan Joudi James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Comment Editor Anna Perman Arts Editor Rox Middleton
Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Matt Allinson Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Food Editor Dana Li Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games
Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Ravi Pall Chris Birkett International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman
Nahar Photo Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editors Dylan Lowe Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Kai Li Loh Ayyub Kamaludin Shruti Mishra Sophie
Lambrakis Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta

