20
COMMENT
felix
FRIDAY 03 decEMBER 2010
S
o says Bradley Manning,
the US soldier working as
an intelligence analyst in
Baghdad.
The rights and wrongs of
the situation are irrelevant. The informa-
tion is out there. This particular can of
worms has been opened. Thanks to inno-
vations like the internet and microchips
which allow us to store huge amounts
of information on a tiny memory stick,
hacking into systems and disseminating
information from them has never been
easier. Because of this, we face a flood
of information from Wikileaks.
But we also face the same onslaught
from more legal means from the Free-
dom of Information act. Institutions
are obliged to release information upon
request.
Supposedly this access to previously
classified information acts as a demo-
cratic leveller. Any public institution
faces having its authority undermined
by leaks of information which might
discredit their members or shed a less
than flattering light on their practises.
So if these leaks are inevitable for all
walks of life, should they be filtered?
The original leaked memos are all avail-
able on the internet, but how many
people have actually read them? Most
of us will have gained what informa-
tion we have about the contents through
the newspapers. We only hear about the
things they choose to tell us, and only
get the spin they choose to put on it.
The problem with reading these docu-
ments, is that both journalists and the
general public are often poorly equipped
to understand the linguistic nuances pre-
sent, and in addition these documents
are being viewed out of context, and not
in terms of the background from which
they arose. A main point of controversy
about the recent leaks was Hilary Clin-
ton asking diplomats to monitor UN of-
ficials, but, it has been argued that these
instructions are not meant literally, and
that diplomats would know the differ-
ence. As a Science Communication
student, this reminded me of the issues
around science reporting that we con-
front daily.
When covering science stories, jour-
nalists are faced with jargon and lan-
guage, which is meaningful to the ex-
perts using it, but to a non-specialist, is
easily misinterpreted.
One recent example would be one of
the emails pounced upon by the right-
wing press in the aftermath of the Uni-
versity of East Anglia ‘climategate’
email fiasco, which, like the wikileaks
of recent days, involved technological
foul play, and leaking of emails between
researchers. Several groups maintained
that these emails manifested genuine
evidence of scientific malpractice, bas-
ing their claims around one email which
referred to ‘Mike’s Nature trick’. While
we often think of a ‘trick’ being devious
or subversive, in fact this trick was sim-
ply a statistical technique used by Mike
Hulme, director of the Tyndall centre for
climate research, to unify two different
data sets.
The link here is that leaks have re-
vealed how the scientific and the dip-
lomatic worlds function. The degree of
secrecy and separation that existed be-
Facing a Wikiflood
tween the public and these institutions
gave them authority, but a peek into
their inner workings make them seem
grubby and corrupt.
Perhaps if they were a bit more
open to begin with, the issues of leaks
wouldn’t exist, and we might respect
their openness. Perhaps. But we proba-
bly wouldn’t have as much faith in their
competence. Either way, I have more
faith in the institutions the leaks are
coming from than the journalists who
are interpreting them.
The likelihood is that we face an infor-
mation arms race, as the US shuts down
access to lower levels, and implements
more and more sophisticated firewalls
and anti-hacking devices. But there will
always be disgruntled employees all the
way up who are willing to leak informa-
tion, and there will always be someone
capable of hacking these systems. So if
this leaking of information is inevitable,
is an honest approach a better one, as it
relies less on media spin?
Information should be free, and it
does belong in the public domain. But
that means we have to be extra careful
with how we interpret it. It may seem
that the papers are just laying open the
truth to the public, but just by selecting
which information to report, journalists,
whether meaning to or not, will always
report with a certain bias.
These wikileaks are turning into a
wikiflood. How we direct the flow of
information is up to us.
The memos released by Wikileaks are part of a wave of
information. But what are we going to do with it?
This coming Thursday will be an important
day for students all across the country. Par-
liament will vote on controversial proposals
to raise the cap on tuition fees to £9,000.
For the Editors of this newspaper the day is
also important for another, albeit more light-
hearted, reason. It will be 61 years to the
day since the first issue of Felix was pub-
lished. It is Felix’s birthday.
The paper is now almost completely unrec-
ognisable, in terms of its design and produc-
tion, to that first issue. Throughout the dec-
ades the various students who have had the
privilege of editing the paper have taken bold
decisions with regard to its appearance. In
fact the only connection, superficially speak-
ing, that the paper has to that first issue
is the logo. The same Cat that smiled out
at students on Friday the 9th of December
1949, now smiles out at students in 2010.
However, despite the changes in appear-
ance, the character and ethos of the paper
have remained consistent. The aims and
objectives laid out by the first Editor of the
paper, E.M. Hughes, are still the aims and
objectives that the team hold in 2010. “To
comment upon the affairs of the College
whilst they are still topical”, he wrote in that
first Editorial; that is certainly still our aim.
“Any contribution will be welcome”, he de-
clared; that is still the guiding ethos of this
paper. “The success or failure of this paper
depends principally upon you, our readers”,
he noted; the current Editors of the paper
still firmly believe this to be true.
We have been especially fortunate this year
in the number of talented students that have
given up their valuable free time to contrib-
ute to the paper; time that they perhaps
should have used to complete lab reports
or catch up on lectures . At a university
where proficiency with equations and lab re-
ports is valued more highly than the ability
to write, the fact that almost 200 students
have already chosen to get involved with the
student publication speaks volumes for the
range of talents at this university.
But although we take pride in the achieve-
ments made so far, we are ever aware of
where we have failed to meet the high stand-
ards set by our predecessors. And because
of that we are always open to criticism and
new contributors. E. M. Hughes really hit the
nail on the head when he said that this pa-
per relies upon you, the reader. Without you,
this paper would be nothing.
FELIX
George Wigmore
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
For a 61-year-old,
you do swear a lot,
don’t you Felix?
In this information age, Julian Assange holds the balance of power, not the government
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“Information should
be free. It belongs in
the public domain”
Comment Editor: Anna Perman
Benjamin Kennedy

