21
felix FRIDAY 03 decemBER 2010
COMMENT
The opinions expressed on the Comment pages represent the views of the author only.
T
hose who support the gov-
ernment’s cuts claim that
people haven’t looked up
or understood the proposi-
tions, and that there are no
other viable options. I find this insulting
and naive.
While student campaigners are vocal
about the rise in fees and scrapping of
EMA, at the heart of these issues is that
the government has announced an 80%
cut in state funding to university teach-
ing which would see courses no longer
being offered, departments close, student
to staff ratios increase and universities
cutting the resources required for their
courses. To meet the funding gap the
cost will be shunted onto the students in
terms of increased tuition fees.
The cuts to higher education are more
like an amputation. I feel these reforms
are an ideological attempt to privatise
our university education. While savings
of public money may be a decent goal,
and the argument that non-graduates
should not pay for the university educa-
tion of others is fair, there is a risk that
the future cost to the taxpayer would be
greater than under the current system.
Reuben Gibbons
With an increasing number of students
entering higher education the govern-
ment will have to procure greater funds
to loan out. While the proposals assume
that not all universities will raise their
fees, the Higher Education Policy Insti-
tute argue that in due time most courses
will be charging £9000. As university
funding decreases it makes sense for the
establishments to charge as much as pos-
sible. While Browne suggested monetary
disincentives for this, the proposals do
not. With the proposal’s inaccuracies of
lifetime earnings for female graduates
and introduction of real rate of interest
it’s unlikely a graduate will pay back the
entirety of their loan. The Treasury are
going to make a loss from the inevitable
writing off of debt after 30 years.
Our own Union survey shows that
current students would be dissuaded
from applying to Imperial if higher fees
were introduced, and Ipsos Mori has
shown that increasing of fees to £5000
or above would dissuade those from the
lowest earning background from apply-
ing to university, which flies in the face
of the so called fairness inherent in the
new system. While some say student debt
isn’t like real debt, with the introduction
of real interest rates payable on loans, it
will be very much like real debt that will
linger on a student for decades after they
graduate, and there is a fear of having
that when in the foreseeable future there
is little guarantee of graduate jobs or that
these will pay as well as in the past.
The main benefactors of the new
changes, according to the Institute of
Fiscal Studies are most likely to be uni-
versities charging the highest fees, while
students will suffer as well as, if univer-
sities opt for £9000 fees as expected, the
taxpayer. This will leave a chaotic legacy
for future governments and students and
a higher education system incomparable
to the one we have today.
In the deficit ridden time that we are in
there are two ways of reversing the prob-
lem: lower spending or increase taxation.
If we increased income tax for high earn-
ers, this would affect graduates who ben-
efited from grant maintained education
and also cause current and future gradu-
ate to enter a system where they pay back
their fair share. If students are going to
higher education as our Union survey
shows because of a passion of their sub-
I
n mid September, Europe began
to howl. Guttural, deep, pained.
On one day, Spain joined Italy,
France and Ireland in staging a
General Strike. The hot streets of
Cadiz thronged with protesters; shops
had doors glued or taped shut. Europe
had arisen to protest austerity measures
imposed to combat massive national
debt (16% of GDP in Spain’s case).
Their people faced lowered minimum
wage, mass unemployment (peaking
at 20%) and stark cuts in order to meet
Prime Minister Zapatero’s aggressive
plan to reduce debt.
In November, students across the UK
began their own revolt, staging mass
demonstrations against the perceived in-
justices of the upcoming increase in tui-
tion fees. I did not join these crowds, nor
was I at home too afraid to join in. I did
not go, simply, because I support the rise
in tuition fees. I fear that by not support-
ing these rises we doom ourselves to real
national pain, real crisis, real unavoida-
ble pain that blights so much of Europe.
It may not be the best possible solution:
simply it is the best viable solution.
There will be many who argue that I
have nothing to lose by backing the fees,
or who may assume that I could easily
have afforded the increased fees. On the
contrary, I struggle as it is: like everyone,
Laura Huckins
I can make a meal for under a pound and
would rather put on an extra jumper than
turn on the heating. It is not churlishness
or superiority, then, that makes me back
the fees. Ultimately, I back the fees for
a number of reasons, all centred on the
fact that I believe the university system
currently falls far short of what it can of-
fer students and the country’s recovery.
A key argument against the increase
is that “students are the future-they are
vital for future economic growth”. Ob-
viously, I agree with this, or I wouldn’t
bother being a student. However, I find
it irrational to argue that we shouldn’t
face cuts in our budget when almost
every other sector faces wage-freezes,
mass redundancies or unemployment.
My cousin is a midwife and health visi-
tor. She has been unemployed for two
years. Several relatives working in sci-
ence face regular risks of redundancy. It
is unfair, it is hard: it is the same story
across the country. I cannot find an ar-
gument which can convince me that, in
this atmosphere, we should be exempt.
Universities face a funding crisis as the
government struggles to finance further
subsidies for ever-increasing numbers of
students. In order to continue to subsi-
dise poorer students and socially respon-
sible degrees (nursing, teaching, medi-
cine, etc) some funding must be found
or the scheme abandoned. To argue then
that financially comfortable students
should not face any worsening of their
situation is insulting both to students
who rely on government help and to the
public at large.
Another popular argument is that an
increase in fees will deter many students
from University education: I find it hard
to believe this. On the whole, the new
funding system allows for greater sub-
sidies and grants, ensuring that students
have in fact a greater access to learning.
The repayment plan should also ensure
that any student earning below an av-
erage of £30,000 pa for 30 years after
graduating will never in fact pay back
their entire loan. It seems hard to argue,
then, that students will be barred finan-
cially from entering university.
I stated in the beginning of this arti-
cle that I believe the proposals will im-
prove the university system as a whole,
as well as simply plugging a yawning
funding gap. A large amount of what is
wrong with universities today lies in the
chasm between what students require
and what universities actually provide.
It is sadly commonplace to hear tales
of Freshers discovering that they have
four “contact hours” a week at their top
twenty university, studying what should
be an academically rigorous course. By
Higher fees will rescue our universities
“Every other sector
faces wage-freezes,
mass redundancies
or unemployment”
“These reforms
are an ideological
attempt to privatise
our university
education”
The coalition’s plans are ideological
ject, and presumably aim for a job like-
wise, it shouldn’t be too unpalatable.
I am disappointed and surprised that
the Union passed their opinions before
the results of their own survey were
published. Council should pass papers
based on the student population’s views.
Despite the low turnout for the survey
it was clear that current students want
to maintain the current system, disagree
that different institutions and courses
should pay different fees and would
have been put off applying to univer-
sity if the fees were higher. Just 5.3%
of students thought leaving university
with greater than £30,000 of debt was
acceptable, yet an increase to £6,000
fees would see student debt for a 3 year
course at this level, with longer courses
and higher fees being worse. I hope the
Union Council reconsiders its stance
and comes out against the proposals,
and at the very least lobbies college
against £9,000 fees. Never before have
I come across so many people talking
in lectures against an issue. It’s time for
us all to make it clear to the Union and
College that we oppose the changes and
introduction of higher fees.
increasing tuition fees the covenant be-
tween student and university should be
strengthened, with students demanding
more from their courses and universities
more accountable to their students. This
can only be a good thing.
The plans also include increasing
equality of payment plans for part time
and full time students. Currently, part-
time students are required to pay up front,
which effectively bars access to these
courses, many of which combine work-
ing and studying, for a large number of
students. Creating a level playing field
here may be an under-publicised area of
the government’s plans but is nonethe-
less a laudable one and one which shows
commitment to providing students with
greater choice over their education.
There are many who see the protests in
London as a true standard of courage, of
bravery, of revolution against an unfair
system. More daring, however, are those
who choose to support the fees. It will
mean higher debt; it will mean harsher
standards of living. It will be worse, in
the short term. In the long term, we may
have a chance to rescue the system be-
fore it is corrupted and crippled. It may
be brave to stand in the snow and protest
for lower fees: it is braver to stand by
these changes and suffer slightly for the
greater good.

