A
h yes, Nature: eve-
ryone’s favourite
science journal.
We slag it off as
populist bullshit
but secretly dream of the day
our paper will be published in its
glossy, simplistic covers. What
garbage have they thrown at us
this week? Oh hurrah, we’re go-
ing to be able to reverse the aging process. And no doubt, by the time the
mainstream media has finished bouncing on this story like Berlusconi on
a power hungry teenie-bopper; we will be queuing up in our thousands
to have this wonder enzyme pumped into our bodies. Let’s get one thing
straight: if I earn enough money, I will probably get plastic surgery when
I’m older to sort myself out.
My opponent in this head-to-head is lucky that he is Chinese. Anyone
who has seen a Kung-fu film will know that Chinese people can only
look one way when they get old, and that way is awesome. Crazy mous-
tache, little goatee and an ability to look good in a dress with sandals
and socks, the Far East Asians are like a fine merlot when it comes to
ageing. I, however, am from the Middle East. When my people get old,
they grow jowls, and wrinkles deep enough to use as CD racks. Now as
I’m sure you can tell from the photo above this article, I am a damn hand-
some man. A little problem with acne that crops up when it gets cold, but
otherwise, I’ve got the package baby. Monobrow, nicotine stained teeth,
weirdly small ears and frizzy hair: it’s a classic look that’s never going
away; and I would never let any concept of growing old gracefully ever
prevent me from preserving it.
“And what of the non-aesthetic reasons for preventing ageing, you vain
prick?” you may ask. We are all getting older and the government is
now getting us to work till we’re 70 before we can get a one way ticket
to the drain-on-the-state-finances-express queue at the post office each
week. Ignoring the fact that this trumped up miracle cure will ravage
us all with cancer before we can even surprise our friends by seducing
their kids with our fresh young faces, it is ridiculous that we can reject a
genuine proposal to “cheat death”, or at least have us ticking over very
nicely until the sudden, final gasp. I mean, have you ever seen children?
They’re fucking horrible, messy things that bite and piss themselves. Or
teenagers? You know how obnoxious and annoying freshers are, right?
They’re like that but worse.
Youth is wasted on the young, and experience is wasted on the old.Any
chance we get to redress that situation by doing away with the irritating,
take-forever-to-get-off-the-bus shit that comes with age will make this a
perfect utopian society for all.
24 felix
COMMENT
Comment Editor: Anna Perman
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
L
et’s start by confirm-
ing the fact that what
scientists managed
to achieve with those
mice will probably
never be emulated in humans.
Call me a sceptic, but let’s call
off all hope for any sort of bona
fide ‘reverse-aging treatment’ for
humans in the foreseeable future. I
mean, we’re so far away from translating this experiment from mice to
humans, we’ll all be dead by the time it’s a realistic occurrence. These
Harvard scientists were barely capable of reversing age, never mind res-
urrection. So, sit back down, close your mouth back up and calm down
for now.
However, back to a hypothetical world we go.
Reverse-aging would make life unfair. More unfair than it already is.
As a final year student currently looking for any dregs of the job market
that I can call ‘employment’, I do not want to be competing against an
140-year-old for jobs. He’d absolutely hammer me in a head-to-head
interview situation with all the wisdom he’s gained from, quite frankly,
more than his fair share of life. I’m ignorant and immature enough, thank
you very much. I count on people around me being more naïve, insensi-
tive and uncultured than myself. Life runs in relativity: stand next to
Peter Crouch, you’re going to look short (like a Borrower in my case);
stand next to Graham Norton, you’re going to look positively butch (I’d
probably struggle with this one); stand next to Katie Price, you’re going
to seem like Einstein (I’m a Biologist and Matt’s a Material Scientist,
this last analogy isn’t working).
Sexual selection is one of the evolutionary drivers of the human race’s
sustainment. It’d be horrifically unfair if the female population were for-
ever subject to a 20 year old Hugh Heffner and his planet-sized libido.
No other man would stand a chance. Hugh would end up being the father
to even more children than he probably already is. Does that sound like
utopia to you?
Growing old doesn’t scare me. Having youth on my side is great and
all that. But I look forward to the mid-life crisis, bus seat offerings and
colostomy bags. I hate having to wash myself in the bath; when you’re
old, someone else does it for you. Life as an elder statesman sounds like
THE life, and if fate wishes to take me there, who am I stop it? Plus, I’ve
planned my mid-life crisis and I’m buying myself three in-house prosti-
tutes and whatever four-seater Volkswagen is all the rage by then. There
are so many benefits of getting old, see?
Having youth in a pill sounds great, but it’s not for me thanks. Oh, why
am I bothering? This argument is futile. It won’t bloody happen anyway.
“Youth is wasted
on the young,
and experience is
wasted on the old”
Matt Allinson
“Reverse-aging
would make life
unfair. More unfair
than it already is”
Hidden behind a computer
screen:The psychological
effects of distancing
through the internet
Dan Wan
People find it easier to express their
feelings ‘hidden’ behind their computer
screens. They can confess things to peo-
ple that they would never talk about face to
face, like suppressed feelings or personal
thoughts. So how exactly did people com-
municate before the internet?
However, the distancing effects of Informa-
tion Technology have drawbacks as well.
People tend to trust strangers that they
have met in chat rooms or in Facebook,
more than in other situations of every day
life. For example, many people expose their
personal details and private moments to
people all over the world over the internet
without consideration. but they would get
upset if a stranger stared at them in the
street!
Recently, I’ve learnt about the psychologi-
cal experiment on ‘Obedience to Authority’
by Professor Stanley Milgram at Yale Univer-
sity that began in July 1961, which I think
is provides very good proof that humans
behave very differently to each other when
they are separated by a screen.
The subjects of the experiment were ran-
dom people who thought that they were par-
ticipating in an experiment on their memory.
Everyone had the role of a teacher who was
responsible to ask a “learner” some ques-
tions and to give him an electric shock eve-
ry time his answer was incorrect. Of course,
the learner was an actor who wasn’t actu-
ally receiving the shocks, he was just pre-
tending to feel the pain.
The results were astonishing; many of the
experiment participants administered a
massive 450-volt shock, though many were
very uncomfortable doing so.
Specifically, they were far more likely to do
this when they could see the learner through
silvered glass, but couldn’t hear them than
when they had to press the hand of the
“learner” to the shock plate themselves.
It is not only obvious but also scientifically
proven that the more the distance between
people increases, the less they feel the ef-
fects that their actions can have. And as
one of the main goals of technology is to in-
crease communication between people who
are far apart, this phenomenon happens
more and more nowadays to the majority of
people, without them even noticing it.
Does it work on you as well?
Anastasia Eleftheriou
This week scientists made mouse organs
younger. Some speculated we could do
the same to humans.The question is...
WOULD YOU TAKE AN ANTI-
AGING PILL?
FRIDAY 03 decEMBER 2010

