25
felix
COMMENT
The opinions expressed on the Comment pages represent the views of the author only.
Flee! Flee the St John Ambulance service!
B
efore coming to London,
my friends and family
loaded me up with good
advice. A common theme
running through these
kernels of sagacity was that London is
a very dangerous place – something I
won’t even try and refute.
With every month that I stay and study
here, I can feel the years sloughing off
my life-expectancy. My lungs are the
council estate battleground between TB
and tar and their respective gangs. There
are macroscopic dangers too, such as the
fine art of stepping into the road to at-
tract a taxi’s attention without losing a
limb in the process. The strange other-
kin that inhabit London after midnight
are equally dangerous. Are they drunk-
fighty, drunk-chatty, drunk-flirty or
some horrid combination of the three?
But there is one danger in the Big
Smoke that is not confined by the M25.
This threat can be found in all major cit-
Rhys Davies
ies, indeed, wherever there are people. It
can appear perfectly harmless from a dis-
tance but when it strikes, it strikes hard.
It doesn’t discriminate between young
and old, rich and poor or any other di-
chotomy society sees fit to draw. I am of
course referring to St John Ambulance.
Now, you mustn’t misunderstand me.
I think the service that St John Ambu-
lance provides is fantastic. Looking
after people with on-the-scene first aid
and treatment is great, especially when
it can take the pressure off the other
ambulance services. Thanks to their
sterling efforts, the mortality from the
Oxford/Cambridge Boat Race has never
been lower. However, I will say this. I
think that St John Ambulance prevent
incidents at all these public events in
the same way the Bogeyman keeps five-
year-olds in their beds at night.
It’s fear, pure and simple; it’s one of
society’s greatest stimuli. A primaeval
fear of the dark – and its contents – led
to the creation of, at varied different
times, fire, religion and the light-switch.
Sport is no exception. I’ve mentioned
before how a fundamental fear of leop-
ards drove our ancestors to running.
Where we once had leopards, we now
have St John Ambulance.
But unlike leopards, the phobic re-
sponse to these Good Samaritans is
intricate and well-crafted. It is the fear
of the unknown. If you’re unfortunate
enough to be caught by St John Ambu-
lance, what do they do to you? Osten-
sibly they’re there to help, the rational
mind reasons; what is the harm? Then
thoughts drift to the gas canisters, the
ampoules of drugs, the defibrillators
and people who have been trained to
use them – and would do anything to
try them out. And while that thought
lingers and malingers in your head, you
wonder why, of all the patients you’ve
seen go into those ambulances, you’ve
never seen any come out again. There is
Dear Sirs, In the Name of God, the
Most Merciful, the Most Kind.
Justice Week intended to highlight
various injustices from around the world
and offer Islam as a potential solution to
these. Various powers were implicated
in injustice during this week including
several Arab nations – particularly for
their complicity in torture at Guanta-
namo. UNICEF were invited to speak
at our event on exploitation of the third
world. In addition, an American speaker
was invited to give his views on the in-
vasion of Gaza in 2009. Justice Week
was inclusive, balanced and united stu-
dents together against injustice.
The Jerusalem Post chose to side-
step the issues raised by Justice Week.
Instead of contacting us, they chose
to refer to sensationalist right wing
propagandists posing as mainstream
thinktanks for their views. On the other
hand; we acknowledge Mr Scally’s non-
discriminatory account and thorough
investigation of affairs in the Felix last
week.
The Editorial suggests we misrepre-
sented the views of the Muslim popula-
tion at our College during Justice Week.
We would like to point out that amongst
the 560 people attending the final event
of Justice Week, over 100 tickets were
purchased by Islamic Society members
and there were many more Muslim
and non-Muslim students amongst the
crowd. We’ve received support for Jus-
tice Week from our members, Muslim
and non-Muslim students, the Union
and the College. Justice Week has been
a great success for Muslims at College;
who have found wider support for their
opinions on injustice and will continue
to share these in the future.
Many Thanks,
Umer Hakeem
President of Islamic Society
Letters
Justice Week
was inclusive
and balanced
Norman
Finkelstein
misled his
audience
equivalent to a lecturer (he was denied
tenure in the US), and he has a track
record of controversy among academic
colleagues.
Being at his lecture reminded me of
the movies by Michael Moore which
supposedly reveal hidden conspiracies
behind any action or event. But if the
movies by Moore are usually taken with
a pinch of salt, I was surprised to see a
lack of critical reflection on behalf of
the people in the audience who failed
to challenge any of Finkelstein’s views.
Worse than that, the inaccuracies of
some of the facts presented went mostly
unnoticed because of the crowd’s almost
naïve willingness to believe.
Most of the focus of the talk was on the
operation “Cast Lead”, a 3-week armed
conflict in the Gaza strip during winter
2008-2009. Israel started the operation
after an escalation of rockets fired into
its territory by Hamas militants. Hamas
is the largest Palestinian militant Islam-
ist organisation widely recognised as a
terrorist organisation, which took over
control of Gaza in 2006.
From the beginning Finkelstein bril-
liantly downplayed the necessity of the
Israeli action, and made the situation
into an almost one-sided-conflict por-
traying Israel as an unprovoked aggres-
sor. His rhetoric reminded me of that of
a politician who highlights those aspects
which favour his statements, while ig-
noring others that don’t support his case.
For example, he “forgot” to mention the
reasons why the Israeli government de-
cided to go into the complicated opera-
tion in the first place. Restoration of se-
curity for Israel was absolutely essential
after more than 3000 rockets were fired
into Israel during 2008 alone. He forgot
to mention the reasons for the blockade,
implemented to restrict the influence
and power of Hamas and to stop them
from smuggling weapons, consequently
used to attack Israel. He did, however,
mention the humanitarian crisis and pur-
ported starvation in Gaza, while forget-
ting to mention that Hamas had no short-
age of the rockets or ammunition before
and during the fighting.
As is commonplace in talks regarding
this topic, Finkelstein used emotional
metaphors to engage the audience rather
than offer rational arguments to defend
his cause. However, what made me most
anxious was the fact that he praised Has-
san Nasrallah, the leader of the Leba-
nese paramilitary group and political
party, Hezbollah. This group calls for
the imminent destruction of Israel and
is regarded by the international commu-
nity as a terrorist organisation. To much
amusement from the crowd, he glorified
the leadership of Nasrallah while joking-
ly suggesting the illiteracy of King Hus-
sein of Jordan and of Hosni Mubarak
(President of Egypt) with whom Israel
has peace agreements. This, for an Israe-
li in the midst of an apparently tolerant
UK university was very disturbing and
simply unacceptable.
Sadly, Finkelstein also abused his
privilege of lecturing to Imperial stu-
dents by using a rhetoric which did
not fall short of calling for resistance.
By using phrases like “Israel under-
stands only one language – language of
force”, “Israel wanted a bloody conflict
...”, “before they (Israel) go for the kill
...”, “Israel would attack in the next
12-18 months ...” he actually looked to
escalate hatred. Finally, by saying “we
have to get prepared for their exercise
in insanity”, “we have to act”, “things
will not change”, he seemed to encour-
age a call for action! This is hardly
something that can provide a construc-
tive force or harmony which can help
bolster any peace process in the Middle
East.
The Middle East is at a very important
cross road. The journey to peace is hard
and at times can be unpleasant. It is clear
that both sides, Israel and the Palestin-
ians, have made and will continue to
make mistakes. In this context, a radical
speaker can only hinder the journey, and
should be left at home. We all need lead-
ers and speakers who can see beyond
specific events of a conflict, who can in-
spire an audience with peace initiatives
and proposals, and pave the way for a
time when harmony will be achieved.
With God’s Help = Beezrat Ha Shem =
Inshallah!
Sincerely,
K.Gena
The author K.Gena wished to remain
anonymous due to teaching responsibili-
ties. His contact details can be supplied
upon request.
the fear of the unknown, with the caveat
of some pretty good guesses.
But there is also a fear of the inevita-
ble. On the savannah plains, every time
a leopard took down a weak or injured
gazelle, it was a memento mori to the
herd that they too were mortal. So too
do St John Ambulance toll the bells of
our doom – with crowd-parting klaxons
and flashing lights. Avoiding St John
Ambulance at all costs avoids too the
grim spectre of Death.
But for all this, St John Ambulance
contributes a valued service to society.
It’s not a necessary evil – the work they
do is probably good... if their patients
survive. No, instead they are the terrify-
ing good. You know they’ll be there for
you if you need them but you fervently
pray that day will never come. Through-
out this letter, I have been comparing
them to leopards but now I realise this
isn’t quite right. They’re more like vul-
tures with high-vis jackets.
Dear Sirs, What can be done with a con-
troversial radical, who also happens to
be a charismatic speaker?
I am speaking of course about Nor-
man Finkelstein, a speaker invited by
the Islamic Society to Justice Week.
He was introduced as a professor, al-
though his academic rank would be
“Every other sector
faces wage-freezes,
mass redundancies
or unemployment”
FRIDAY 03 decemBER 2010

