ARTS
FELIX
Friday 03 december 2010
26
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you read nothing else
this week...
Matt Colvin wants you to pick up a
cult hit from 1998. Step this way for
a brilliant satire on unrequited love,
horrific murder and high school
What’s your favourite book and why should we read
it? Tell us in 350-400 words and send it to
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Probably best known under pseudonym Lemony
Snicket, author of the popular ‘A Series of Unfortu-
nate Events’ books, Handler’s debut novel delves
into the lives of a group of close-knit friends at a San
Francisco high school with razor sharp precision.
In a year where they should be worrying about uni-
versity applications, we instead, through the diary
of the smitten Flannery Culp, enter a world where
pretentiousness runs high and academic rigour less
so. Amidst the trials and tribulations, the dinner par-
ties and social politics, the group end up encounter-
by
Daniel Handler
The Basic
Eight
ing far more adult problems than their precocious
minds can cope with, culminating in murder by un-
questionably fashionable croquet mallet.
Very loosely based on Handler’s own experienc-
es at high school, the author delivers a perfectly
pitched account of late teenage life, which, despite
the exaggerations, strikes particularly true to real-
ity, especially with regards to the relationships be-
tween the friends. Flitting from high tension to good
natured banter with ease, it is this interaction of the
characters, and lack thereof, which drives the heart
of the story.
Writing from the perspective of Flannery, a fantas-
tically unhinged yet perfectly composed character,
Handler is able to use the blackest of black humour
both through both the mentally fraught individual
and the plot itself to deliver a thoroughly uproarious
yet hugely uncomfortable tale.
Handler proves to be a playful master of words
and comedy, with lines so deadpan that they prob-
ably deserve their own funeral. A triumph of unreli-
able narration, the reader’s perceptions of the main
characters changes with alarming regularity, yet this
never quite stretches credulity to breaking point. All
the better, by the end one is left with countless
interpretations as to the motivations of Flannery –
this is a book firmly placed outside any kind of black
and white definite conclusions. A scathing satire on
various issues such as education, media scaremon-
gering and the arrogance of adolescence, polished
off with a healthy dose of Grade A wit, The Basic
Eight rewards multiple reads and proves that Han-
dler isn’t just for the kids.
Tate Modern's exhibition on Gauguin is his first
international exhibition for more than 50 years.
It documents his shifting styles, focusing on his
interest in depicting myth and the supernatu-
ral, and culminating in his most famous works
painted in Tahiti. As well as allowing the view-
er to observe Gauguin's very variable painting
styles and progression as an artist, it also docu-
ments and provides context to the painter’s life,
providing two rooms full of articles, letters and
historical memorabilia.
The exhibition begins with a series of self
portraits. Each portrait shows how Gauguin
wanted to project himself at different point in
his career, from amateur artist and stockbro-
ker to fulltime artist. There is one particular
self portrait completed when Gauguin returned
from his travels in Tahiti for the first time, de-
picting himself in front of one of his own Ta-
hitian paintings, showing his determination to
picture himself as the exotic travelling artist
and starting to give an indication of the artist’s
general attitude.
You get a further clue beyond the first room,
where quotes from Gauguin displayed on the
wall proclaim such statements as ‘I am a great
artist and I know it’. A painting is also on
show, ‘Christ in the garden of olives’ in which
Gauguin likens his suffering to Christ on the
eve of his crucifixion by portraying Christ
through self-portrait. The whole exhibition
gives the general impression Gauguin may
not have been such a modest guy. As much
as Gauguin is self-congratulatory, he is very
scathing of other artists, describing the pointil-
list Seurat as the “little dot” in his letters.
The highlight of the exhibition is the works
Gauguin painted in Tahiti. Female figures in
earthy shades of yellows and greens, amongst
scenery of vibrant oranges, purples and greens
have a very exotic quality and show Gauguin’s
very original and bold use of colour. These are
very distinctive, but he seems to have only re-
ally developed such a unique style on his move
to Tahiti. His earlier work is often reminiscent
of impressionists such as Van Gogh, who he
spent time with in Arles in 1888, and whilst not
unpleasant, is a bit unremarkable.
There are, however, some more interest-
ing early paintings. I particularly liked one of
his children sleeping, Clovis Asleep, in which
Gauguin had incorporated dreamlike imagery
into the wallpaper. He includes other elements
of myth in many of his paintings, from the
Christianity of Brittany to the pagan myths of
Tahiti. Despite the fact that the island convert-
ed to Christianity almost 100 years before and
many of the women dressed conservatively,
this did not deter Gauguin from painting exact-
ly how he wanted to portray his ‘savage’ ideal,
and describing to others the innocent purity of
the beliefs and dress of the natives.
After he left his wife, Gauguin lived perma-
nently in Tahiti taking various women as his
mistresses. The hedonistic life Gauguin now
followed is illustrated well in the exhibition by
the door to his home, carved with lintels and
the words ‘House of Pleasure’. His argumenta-
tiveness did not wane and he got in trouble with
the authorities over his refusal to pay tax. His
later years, however, were plagued by syphilis
and he died of heart failure in 1903.
Although I found Gauguin’s earlier paint-
ings a little bit disappointing, the later paint-
ings in Tahiti may make the exhibition worth
a visit. And whilst Gauguin is a very interest-
ing man, revolutionary in his time, I have to
say that the exhibition portrays him as a little
obnoxious.
The Glass Menagerie enfolds us in the memo-
ries of Tom, a young poet trapped by his depen-
dent family, who both appears in each scene
and narrates the play from his present. This is
the play that made Tennessee Williams famous
and aside from an occasionally dodgy South-
ern accent (Deborah Findlay as the mother)
and a limp that may have hopped from foot to
foot (the sister) the Young Vic’s production is
flawless. An aura of memory is cleverly craft-
ed by the presence of the two musicians as part
of the multi-level set – particularly poignant
moments in the play are haunted by the eerie
sound from the percussionist’s array of wine
glasses (the licking your finger and running it
round the rim trick).
Despite any observations about her limp I
thought Sinéad Matthews as Tom’s frail sister
Laura gave the best performance in the play. I
was so convinced I would find it hard to ever
imagine her walking straight. It is believed this
character was based on William’s own sister and
his portrayal is tender and sometimes painful.
The premise of the play is the mother’s ob-
sessive plans to find a “gentleman caller” for
Laura so that she can be taken off her brother’s
hands, as their father, represented here only
by a giant portrait, quit the family many years
ago. But Laura’s physical fragility is matched
by a crippling shyness, totally opposed to the
huge character of her mother, leading her to
hide in a world of glass animals.
Matthews makes Laura very likable and
we cringe with her in a perfectly pitched final
scene when a gentleman caller does indeed ar-
rive. His normality and easy charm provides a
sharp contrast with her extreme awkwardness
and the strange parallel reality this isolated
family lives in. When the family’s electricity is
cut off, the stage is lit with real candles, draw-
ing us into their home and lives. I found the
moment when Laura and her caller dance espe-
cially sweet and memorable. We see her begin
to blossom in his presence and the inevitable
disappointment when it transpires he has noth-
ing to offer her is crushing and hard to watch.
The mother, a faded Southern Belle indomita-
ble and hilariously flirtatious when her gentle-
man finally calls, is hugely enjoyable to watch.
Her character provides laughs but Findlay also
gets across her insensitive, domineering side
from which Tom is so desperate to escape.
Go Go Go Gauguin
Enchanting glass memories
Cecily Goodwin
Glass Menagerie at the Young Vic until
15th Jan. Tickets from £10.
Nevermore O Tahiti (Courtauld Gallery), Gauguin Uncovered at the Tate Modern until 16th January, tickets £13.50
Christina Flanagan

