FELIX Friday 03 december 2010 27
ARTS
‘The Looking Glass Club’ tells the story
of a rather elusive Union society – a so-
ciety without a stall at the Freshers’ fair
anyway; a society which convenes in
a dark and dank room somewhere un-
derneath South Kensington, accessible
only through a secret tunnel with the
membership list kept a closely guarded
secret. It is the story of Zeke, an oth-
erwise normal Physics student, that is
until he was approached and befriended
by a PhD student; in the midst of devel-
oping a, to put it lightly, mind altering
drug, who persuaded him to come along
to a club meeting.
The book switches from Zeke’s stu-
dent days and the club set in the famil-
iar background of South Kensington to
Manhattan and the present day future –
full of scary robotic nurses, the Freedom
Tower and some truly mystifying hospi-
tal scan results.
‘The Looking Glass Club’ is a fast
paced, sometimes funny, sometimes
scary and overall thoroughly addictive
new book. Full of mystery and intrigue
the book maintains its balance on the
thin line between being unpredictable
I should start off by saying that I loved
the book – you’ve converted me to Sci-
ence Fiction! (See the review below)
Fantastic! You weren’t a sci fi fan before
then?
No, and I was nervous about reading
it in case I thought it was awful!
Lots of people have felt the same way
–I’ve had some fantastic feedback from
people though – it’s really lovely to hear
people say that they’re not normally sci-
ence fiction fans and yet the absolutely
loved the book. That’s something I re-
ally wanted to achieve.
How did you come up with the idea of
‘The Looking Glass Club’?
I’m not still a physicist but I do like to
read about it, about new ideas and be-
came so engaged in it that I actually
thought about writing a book about
physics itself; then I realised that that
probably wasn’t going to happen and it
would take about ten years of dedication
and incredible mathematical rigour so I
thought I would do the next best thing
and make a novel instead. I had a dream
actually – It was one of those moments
where you just run out of bed and get
right to the keyboard and start writing.
What made you decide to set part of
the novel at Imperial?
That was a very conscious decision be-
cause I get a bit sick of reading novels
set in Cambridge colleges and I just
thought ‘But Imperial’s great!’ and it
deserves to be on the fictional map. I’m
very proud of Imperial – I’ve spent six
years of my life there and I just fell in
love with London and Imperial the mo-
ment I arrived.
Was it difficult to find a publisher for
a Science Fiction book?
Yup, it’s an incredibly tough market be-
cause it’s so niche – in fact there are only
six publishers for it in the UK. I think
part of the reason for that is because
most of it is rubbish! I find that as a sci-
entist it’s very frustrating to read a badly
written SF book with fundamental prin-
ciples so badly written and sometimes
even wrong and you just think ‘God,
why are they even bothering?’
There’s so many ideas and theories
about physics, philosophy and tech-
nology in the book – were you ever
told to ‘dumb it down’?
Yes! Absolutely! I had a meeting with
an agent and her assistant editor and be-
cause she’d been so enthusiastic about it
I sort of expected that I’d been going in
the right direction. Her assistant editor
didn’t have the same views though – he
didn’t really like the science and didn’t
like the fact that it was so technical and
he basically said ‘you can’t do this, it’s
not your job to write a book about phys-
ics or philosophy – it’s your job to write
about guns and car chases.’ At that point
I just thought ‘well, you’re an idiot –
don’t tell me what to write!’
Any tips for budding authors?
Yes! Don’t go it alone – get involved
with an authors group. I found a great
group online which was a great form of
support as it is quite a lonely endeavour,
and writing a novel is hard!
Come and join The Looking Glass Club
We meet Imperial alumnus Gruff Davies, who launched his sci-fi novel last week in Southside Halls
But do you want to read it?
Louise Murphy
Published by Sencillo, available in
the Union Shop.
Louise Murphy
“sometimes funny,
sometimes scary and
overall thoroughly
addictive”
and ridiculous – from the pregnant
stranger with amnesia to the talking dog
with a new found religion. There is a
fantastic mix of philosophical and phys-
ics theory and ideas interweaved with a
truly gripping story line, as well as some
bizarre advances in technology. The plot
is complicated but works – don’t ask me
how, but Davies manages to keep a track
on two interweaving storylines, theo-
ries, puzzles and characters and come
out with a, dare I say it, brilliant Sci-Fi
thriller. There are hints sometimes of a
story run amok and a well thumbed the-
saurus, but these, I assure you, are only
brief patches in an otherwise great book
which could very easily translate bril-
liantly to film.
At the end of each chapter are puzzles
taken from the notebook of a former
member of the club – puzzles which
took almost a year for Davies to com-
pile and are almost unique in their form
but translate to the same thing – an im-
age. Davies is offering a prize of up to
£1,000,000 to the clever beast that can
solve them all. But, if like me, a basic
Sudoku is more your cup of tea the book
is still worth a read anyway – it is easy
to be put off by the science and compli-
cated ideas within the book but the book
is accessible from several levels – with
several readers commenting that they
have read it several times in quick suc-
cession and are still discovering new
and exciting things about it.
GE Global Research
Redefining What’s Possible
GE Global Research Europe is set in the inspired environment of a university campus, hosting
cutting-edge industrial labs that focus on creating the newest breakthroughs and long-
range technologies for all of GE’s markets including renewable energy, healthcare, aviation,
and oil & gas. Located just outside of Munich, Germany in Garching, on the campus of the
Technical University of Munich, the site houses more than 150 researchers from countries
around the world, with a variety of disciplines and backgrounds. At GE Global Research you
will be working hand-in-hand with some of the world’s most creative and talented scientists,
on some of the most remarkable breakthroughs in technology.
If you have a passion for innovation, visit the careers page at www.ge.com/research
to learn more.

