A week ago I unexpectedly stumbled across
Botown, a band promising reborn Bollywood
grooves with a funk soul twist. I’ve never con-
sidered placing these music genres together,
especially as their roots lie half way around the
world, but the prospect of a night in the Jazz
Café with a new take on funk and soul was
something I couldn’t pass on.
I was lucky enough to get a pre-gig interview
with Ajay and his band. It was clear that they
had a strong musical focus, “Bollywood is the
soul of India, it has the same purpose as soul
music, the identity thing, the liberation thing,”
and for the Western band members who had
never heard Bollywood before, funk and soul
instantly worked with it. They also told me that
although they were excited about the launch
of their debut album (‘The Soul of Bollwood’,
launched that very night), to them the band is
all about the live gigs.
As soon as they got going Ajay had the Bol-
MUSIC
FELIX
28
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
My Chemical
Romance
Danger Days: The
True Lives of the
Fabulous Killjoys
Reprise Records
2010
The album that launched MCR’s career into the strato-
sphere, 2006’s The Black Parade, saw the band finally
realising their ambitions of Queen-inspired grandiose
pop anthems. In my opinion it was full of flaws – and
a huge step back from their 2004 masterpiece, Three
Cheers For Sweet Revenge – but the gloomy cancer-
centric concept of the album struck a chord with the
emo masses. They scrapped the album they were
making for a year, and vocalist Gerard Way came up
with a new concept for the album, about a reckless
crew of freedom fighters living in a post-apocalyptic
world ruled by vampire cyborgs. Or something. The
result is a genre-blending and infectious reconcili-
ation of their earlier Misfits-tinged gothic punk and
their recent venture into stadium rock. It’s catchy, up-
beat, full of great lyrics and a true joy to rock out to.
Check out “Party Poison”, “Vampire Blood”, or watch
the “Na Na Na...” video to see the cyberpunk princes
in their full glory. Greg Power
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
SOAD @ Download 2011
Castle Donington, Nottingham
Wednesday 8th June 2011
It’s a little early, I know, but with the first wave of
tickets online yesterday, and with a single headlin-
ing act it is already guaranteed to be one of the
greatest events of the year: System of a Down are
reforming to rampage through the Summer festival
circuit (and possibly a new album? please?). After
five brilliant albums, including the now seminal Tox-
icity and their Mezmerize/Hypnotize double-album
concept piece, SOAD have a ton of brilliant, raw,
heavy and downright weird material to draw from.
Their live performances are legendary – guitarist
Daron Malakian usually writhes around on stage,
messed up on some sort of horse medication –
and with the added bonus of being millionaires
they’ll probably have an insane stage show too.
Greg Power
There has always been one paradoxical quote
about Weezer that amused me. I’m paraphras-
ing, but it goes along the lines that “Weezer
are the worst rock band in America to release
two of the greatest albums of the last 20
years”.
Whilst I disagree, it’s easy to understand why
they might be labeled as such. After the initial
disappointment of their comeback Green Al-
bum in 2001, and the series of pitfalls along the
way (Parts of Red and Hurley, all of Make Be-
lieve and Raditude) you’d probably be thinking
it’s a miracle if Weezer had any followers left.
Yet you’d be surprised to find a community of
dedicated, and often frustrated, people who
truly love this band.
It comes down to one album: Pinkerton.
Coming from a troubled past, it has become the
albatross that hangs around the bands’ collec-
tive neck. A blessing in that it is quite simply
a work of genius, and a curse in that they have
never been able to follow it up.
Originally spawned as a space rock opera
named Songs from the Black Hole, it morphed
into a quasi-concept album based around Ma-
dame Butterfly and was a swift departure from
their eponymous debut’s geek power pop. Vo-
cal harmonies were swapped with screams,
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
Botown bring the Bollywood
Botown are like one big funky family with an addiction to Bollywood music
1. Radiohead
2. Muse
3. The Beatles
4. Kanye West (AW YEA
BABY)
5. The XX
6. Bloc Party
7. The Killers
8. Gorillaz
9. Four Tet
10. Florence & TM
lywood fans singing along whilst the saxo-
phone and bass later got everyone grooving.
The crowd of mainly 30-somethings couldn’t
help shaking it down.
The band’s female singer, Rekha, didn’t
make much of an appearance at first but later
came on to showcase her wonderful voice, ac-
companied by the sax and some well timed
breaks. The highlights of the night were defi-
nitely ‘Chura Liya’, a 70’s Bollywood classic
brought to life with some reggae beats and the
ever impressive sax, ‘Roop Tera’, Botown’s
first single, and ‘Laila’ which Rekha took to
town. ‘Haule haule’ saw the band running up
Rivers Cuomo is a seriously weird dude
to play along the balcony, which appeared to be
too much for the classy drunk next to me who
almost fell flat on her face trying to work out
what was going on.
Despite one or two songs and the nine of
them being crammed on to the stage, Botown
provided some great soul and jazz, and Bolly-
wood music that I actually enjoyed…for once.
I’m not sure how they would go down in In-
dia but for those who grew up with their par-
ents playing Bollywood classics on cassettes,
or others who are just curious about Bolly-
wood, jazz and soul with a difference, Botown
won’t fail to deliver.
Botown
The Jazz Café
5th November 2010
★★★★✩
Rishi Mistry
“I Wanna Go Back...”
A look at the re-issue of one of the 90’s greatest albums
Weezer
Pinkerton (Deluxe)
Geffen
★★★★★
Chris Dean
acoustic guitar with walls of feedback, the only
remaining feature being their signature quirky,
pop culture referencing lyrics. But even these
were distorted and made darker, becoming ob-
sessed with sex, heartbreak, and what Japanese
school girls get up to in their spare time (if you
catch my drift).
Largely ignored by the press when it was first
released, it was both a commercial and critical
flop, and placed #1 on Rolling Stones’ worst
album of 1996 list. The band retreated into hia-
tus for the next five years, and nothing more
was heard of the Weez. But by some miracle,
over those five years the album began gather-
ing steam by itself, slowly gaining recognition
with both fans and critics, and went on to be-
come one of the biggest sleeper hits ever con-
ceived.
Now, a full 14 years later the album is being
reissued and re-mastered as a 2 CD, 36 track
album of odds and ends. The B-Sides and un-
released tracks from this era remain of a ludi-
crously high quality: “Devotion” feels heavy
and sluggish to the verge of breaking point,
but somehow works. New track “Getting Up
and Leaving”, only heard before from the Not
Alone concert where frontman Rivers Cuomo
performed it acapella is a lost Weezer classic.
And that’s not forgetting the Coda version of
“Longtime Sunshine”, or the end cap of the al-
bum “Tragic Girl”.
However, what’s most striking upon listen-
ing again is that it hasn’t aged. Opener “Tired
Of Sex” is still as debauched; the chorus of
“El Scorcho” still has the same fist in the air,
feel good factor; the bass of “Getchoo” full
on rawk; the closing chords of “Butterfly” a
sting of regret. It’s abrasive, blistering, and at
times uncomfortable, but beneath these layers
lies an incredibly personal, humourous and
emotive album that is utterly relatable. So if
you’re a Weezer veteran, recovering addict,
or only know “Beverly Hills” (Shudder...
(Editor’s note: Shame on you!)) then this is
an essential purchase for the coming wintery
months.
FRIDAY 03 decEMBER 2010

