30
FILM
felix
Pure entertainment
Losing his family early on in the film, Ma-
chete is given the predictable “nothing to lose”
kind of characteristic that drives him to do
unimaginable things to complete his mission.
Apart from the fact that he is a skilled and often
brutal killer who can use a range of weapons
for the purpose of spilling his enemy’s blood,
not much is told about this man. This is a good
thing in fact, since Trejo would not have been
able to portray anything more sophisticated
than that. His moody, dark expression that is
Classic Cinema
The Breakfast Club
Ever felt like your parents don’t understand you? Do
they put pressure on you to achieve? Do they spoil
you? Beat you? Or worse, ignore you? Everything is
their fault. In fact, all adults just don’t understand
kids, because ‘when you grow up, your heart dies’.
Or so I’ve learnt from watching John Hughes’ 80s
classic The Breakfast Club.
Let me set the scene for you. Five teenagers from
different teen film tribes are forced together for an
entire Saturday in detention. They spend it belittling
each other, getting high, and having emotional out-
pourings. Then, because there’s a load of sexual
energy floating around and it has to go somewhere,
they end up pairing off and snogging in a broom cup-
board. Apart from a dweeb named Brian. I don’t know
about you, but from my experience of teenage rela-
tionships, so far, so familiar.
But this isn’t just some shit 80s movie where
gawky adolescents sit around, complain nobody un-
derstands them and then get off with someone hide-
ously unsuitable.
Ok, maybe that is the bulk of the storyline. So
what? The whole reason I love this movie is that it
is banal – and we’ve all been there. This is the main
essence of why John Hughes films (Ferris Bueller’s
Day Off, Pretty in Pink) live on: teenagers haven’t
changed, and they never will.
I know it’s easy to wish those days of pimples,
mood swings and embarrassment away, but there
was some good in there too. Teenagers feel things
with an intensity that fades later in life. When you get
older, your heart doesn’t die, but it does harden a lit-
tle. Being a teenager is shit. Sometimes, it’s nice to
take an hour or two to look back on all of the bullying,
insecurities and mind-numbing pretentiousness, and
remember that, for all your teenage failings, you were
probably no more of a tit than anyone else.
The Breakfast Club helps you remember, just for an
hour or two, what it feels like to go from suicidal con-
fessions, to flailing 80s style dancing in the average
time it takes a teenage guy to ‘rock your world’. And
that really isn’t long, trust me.
Anna Perman
Stop for a second and look at what he’s wearing...
Seriously, WTF?
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Matt Allinson
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you can remember back as far as 2007, you
may recall the film called “Grindhouse,” an at-
tempt made by Robert Rodriguez and Quentin
Tarantino to make the idea of a double feature
film more appealing. You may also recall that
there was a fake trailer made to fill the gap be-
tween the two separate films. That trailer was
“Machete” and what was going to remain as a
“fake” preview became so popular that now,
in the year 2010, we finally get the full-length
feature film.
Danny Trejo has dazzled the screen for years
as charismatic, tough antiheroes or villains
making him perfect as the star. “Machete” tells
the story of an ex-Federale who has vengeance
at heart – after an operation goes awry in Mex-
ico, a ruthless drug lord murders his family and
leaves him to die. Being the hard man that he is,
Machete Cortez (Trejo) survives and escapes to
Texas, carrying out odd jobs as an illegal im-
migrant for much-needed cash. It’s here that he
gets an enticing offer from business man Mi-
chael Booth (Jeff Fahey); $150,000 cash for the
assassination of a racist US Senator (Robert de
Niro) who is up for re-election. But Machete
finds himself betrayed yet again and he ends
up running from the law, from the people who
hired him in the first place and also from Immi-
grations Officer Sartana Rivera (Jessica Alba).
effortlessly sustained throughout is all the film
requires of him and he nails it.
Even after the terrific opening sequence, di-
rector Robert Rodriguez never gives up trying
to impress the audience with his endlessly im-
aginative action set-pieces. Yes, a lot of them
are bonkers, but that is exactly what made “Sin
City” so great. It has the exact same effect here.
The biggest highlight most definitely involves
Machete pulling out a guy’s intestine for the
purpose of using it as rope. Completely nuts
and implausible, but watching how calmly and
casually Trejo carries this out is pure entertain-
ment. And it’s not just Trejo who gets to slice
people up: Alba lands a feisty role that she
suits surprisingly well and watching her fend
Rodriguez never gives
up trying to impress
the audience with
imaginative action
“
in
re
at
at
e-
e-
as
as
a
a
Rodriguez n
Rodrigue
up trying to
up trying to
the audien
the audien
”
ut is all the film
t is al
th
h
on
on
Director Robert Rodriguez, Ethan
Maniquis
Screenwriter Robert Rodriguez, Álvaro
Rodríguez
Cast Danny Trejo, Jessica Alba, Robert
DeNiro, Michelle Rodriguez
Machete
John Park
off someone twice her size with her high-heel
shoes is again ridiculous, but fun.
Moving at a rapid pace balancing hectic ac-
tion and a plot that unexpectedly deals with
racism, immigration and politics, Rodriguez
relies on a killer soundtrack to comfortably
move events along. It’s a set of compositions
that certainly evoke the feeling of all the hum-
ble and trashy 70s blood-gore-sex romps. The
gritty, down-to-earth atmosphere the music
creates ties in nicely with Rodriguez’s visual
style: something he clearly has an eye for. The
confident choppy editing only further empha-
sises the film’s rough and energetic tone.
Rodriguez knows how to make proper use of
his range of outstanding cameo stars. Steven
Seagal, whose films have not seen the inside
of a cinema for a while, makes a welcome re-
turn as the trash-talking, brutal antagonist. Don
Johnson is spot-on as the power-hungry bor-
der-patrolling vigilante who acts as the film’s
main antagonist. Lindsay Lohan has a small
part, but the drug-addicted, attention-seeking
teen she portrays shares striking similarities
with the actress’ personal life – so no room for
error there. De Niro seems to have most fun
as the fascist Senator who has moments of hu-
mourous monologues in what must be the ac-
tor’s simplest and easiest role to date.
Nothing can be easier to watch than “Ma-
chete.” It’s the perfect grown-up, Friday night-
out film that breezes through its absurdly
entertaining action scenes with memorable per-
formances and a somewhat thought-provoking
plot. The underlying serious subject matter is
deliberately left untouched in places because
let’s be honest, who gives a damn about poli-
tics when you have arms, legs and heads flying
all over the place?
In my day student protestors were rather more friendly than they are today...
FRIDAY 03 decEMBER 2010

