31
felix
FILM
STEPHEN WAS LOOKING FOR A BIGGER IT CHALLENGE. WE GAVE HIM GLOBAL
RESPONSIBILITY. When we needed someone to manage our new server infrastructure, Stephen was the
natural choice. His team now handles 1,200 server installations and decommissions a year. He has closer contacts
with our global teams – and delivers solutions that ensure our success. Read his story at credit-suisse.com/careers
LOCATION: LONDON
Credit Suisse is an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not discriminate in its employment decisions on the basis of any protected category.
© 2010 CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG and/or its affiliates, subsidiaries and branches. All rights reserved.
Afestive comedy-
horror from Finland
Bored of the festive season? Bored
of mince pies and cold weather? If
you’re looking for something differ-
ent this season, you need not look any
further than this Finnish film about an
ancient child-eating devil Santa, Rare
Exports: A Christmas Tale, which
has been slated as this year’s premier
festive-comedy-horror.
It’s the week before Christmas and
young Pietari uncovers the truth about
Santa Clause: far from the Coca-Cola
invention of red suit and bells, Santa is
in fact a two-horned fiend, preying on
the young and naughty. Over the course
of this film’s bizarre events that sees a
400-strong reindeer herd lying bloodied
in the snow, mysterious disappearances
of children, and American scientists ex-
cavating an ancient mountain, Rare Ex-
ports keeps you guessing. Humour and
suspense are handled well in this sea-
sonal story, and you’ll laugh as you’re
treated to one Christmas cliché after
another.
Seven years ago Jalmari Helander
made a short internet viral about smug-
glers hunting Santa Claus, following up
in 2005 with another. The success of
these two shorts has led to the financing
of this fantastically inventive feature.
Coming from these roots, however, the
film is predictably flawed, by just being
too damn long. At 82 minutes, the run-
time is unfortunately asking too much of
this one, albeit brilliant, idea: the char-
acters and plot line just don’t quite fill
up the time. That’s not to say that the
film is dull. It packs a fair punch of jokes
and scares, with the first half featuring
a good selection of harrowing scenes
and touching moments. The comedy is
of the deathly black variety with a few
one liners, building to the final, climatic
scene involving a helicopter, a reindeer
pen and a lot of explosives. A personal
favourite scene is when Peitari’s father
catches a ‘Santa’ in a home-made wolf
trap and proceeds to interrogate him.
One of the great aspects of the film
is that it examines our ridiculous sen-
sationalisation of the Christmas period.
Gingerbread, Christmas lights, presents
– anything you can think of to do with
the modern consumerist Christmas is
highlighted in this film and ridiculed.
It’s not an uncommon gripe about
Christmas, but this film brings the point
subtlety home. Overlooking the fact that
the running time is slightly too ambi-
tious we can take away some interesting
ideas from this film and have fun whilst
doing so. I urge you to do something a
bit different this year and give this off-
beat Finnish film a try. Even if you don’t
like horror films, this is a great exam-
ple of modern independent film-making
driven by rare originality.
Director Jalmari Helander
Screenwriter Jalmari Helander
Cast Jorma Tommila, Onni
Tommila, Peeter Jakobi
Rare Exports: A
Christmas Tale
Jake Lea-Wilson
Evil and ginger - a chilling new take on Santa Clause
The next move for iCU Cinema
Jade Hoffman
Overthisterm,wehavebeenfollowingthe
relaunch of iCU Cinema and celebrating
its successes – from its sold-out opening
night with Inception to its recent screening
of comic-book gold Scott Pilgrim vs. The
World – as it brings blockbuster films back
to the comfort of the Union.
But now iCU Cinema is set to an-
nounce the return of the ‘All-Nighter’
which is sure to be welcomed by all die-
hard film fanatics wishing to test their
endurance in an epic 12 hour blockbust-
er extravaganza.
All-Nighters run in the final week
of term, from 6pm-6am and features
six films back-to-back, with the Union
Bar opening up in between intervals all
through the night. The line-up this year
includes a wide range of genres from
the all-star shoot-em-up The Expenda-
bles, to the controversial British comedy
about terrorism Four Lions, to the criti-
cally acclaimed Facebook drama The
Social Network.
We have lots to look forward to from
iCU Cinema next term, too, as they look
towards putting on two screenings a
week. Running on the night of Tuesday
14th December, the iCU Cinema’s All-
Nighter will serve as a fitting end to a
highly successful comeback.
FRIDAY 03 decemBER 2010

