FASHION
Fashion Editor: Saskia Verhagen
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX Friday 03 december 2010 32
The rise and rise of the Fashion Blog
A select group of fashion obsessives are bringing fashion to the masses: Fashion
Editor Saskia Verhagen explores the burgeoning online world of fashion blogging
T
he fashion industry has
always been deemed inac-
cessible, elitist and perhaps
slightly indimidating by
general consensus. It seems
only natural, then, for people to start
taking fashion into their own hands, and
out of the perfectly manicured talons of
the fashion editrixes at Vogue and the
like. Such is the world of fashion blog-
ging. Now very popular, just a few have
gained a loyal following, and even few-
er have earned endorsements from the
heavy-hitters in the fashion world – PRs
and designers alike – gaining entry into
runway shows and press days alongside
the very editors who have always held
fashion at arms reach, on the page of a
magazine, on the body of a supermodel.
The scope of fashion blogs range
from street style blogs, where budding
fashion photographers roam the streets
in search of the sartorially inspired, to
personal style blogs, where individuals
exhibit their own inspirational styling.
What is so special about them though, is
the fact that each is completely unique;
anyone interested in fashion can find a
fashion blog that appeals - and if you
can’t, start one up yourself!
Some of my personal favourites are
below – though I implore you to take a
look for yourself, and find yourself in-
spired without having to flick though the
pages of a magazine.
Fashion Toast Sea of Shoes
Clothes Whisperer
The Sartorialist
Rumi Neely, personal style blogger behind
Fashion Toast, is one of the pioneers in
making fashion blogging a career. Spawned
from her blog has come a modelling con-
tract with US fashion giant Forever 21, a
jewellery collection with Dannijo and a cap-
sule wardrobe collection with RVCA, whose
previous collaborators have included su-
permodel Erin Wasson. Her signature is ef-
fortless SoCal style – loose, draped lines,
an excess of heavy metal jewllery – rings
and necklaces are a favourite – combined
with unexpected designer accents: Chloé
platform boots, Dolce and Gabbana wedg-
es or an Alexander Wang Diego bag. The
secret behind her huge popularity is her
penchant for accessible fashion - Topshop,
Zara, H&M and thrifted/vintage pieces fea-
ture heavily, making a clear case for fash-
ion being for everyone, not just for those
who can afford it.
www.fashiontoast.com
Kristin Knox, fashion writer, author and
proud owner of an MPhil from Oxford, has
cornered the market on an intellectual ap-
proach to fashion with her fabulously witty
writing and flawless New York-comes-to-
London style. With posts ranging from in-
depth runway analysis (scholar-style) to her
signature Style Whispering (photoshoots
in designers’ showrooms, putting her own
spin on their current collections), each one
provides a peek into the world of fashion.
Funny, envy-inducing and always truthful,
in addition to the innumerable pictures rife
in all fashion blogs, Kristin’s is one of the
only blogs out there whose text is actually
worth reading. Particularly entertaining are
her posts on the “Champagne and Canapé
Diet” - a self-admitted fashion addict, Kris-
tin prefers to spend her cash on clothes
than food, and so, makes the most of the
fantastic spreads provided at press days!
www.theclotheswhisperer.co.uk
One for the gentlemen, The Sartorialist is
arguably the most famous of all fashion
blogs. Scott Schuman is a New York-based
street style photographer with an eye for
classically elegant sartorial style. His par-
ticular favourite subjects include Milanese
gentlemen (clad in bespoke three-piece
suits, complete with cravats, leather gloves
and perfectly formed handmade brogues),
cute New York girls on bicycles and Anna
Dello Russo and the Vogue Nippon editorial
team (wearing super-luxe designer couture
– fresh off the catwalk, of course). Togeth-
er with his girlfriend, fellow fashion blog-
ger Garance Doré, whose blog has a huge
following of its own, he is a fashion week
regular – particularly funny to watch are the
fashionistas standing outside the catwalk
tents vying to catch his eye and be deigned
with fashion blogging’s greatest honour - a
portrait shot on The Sartorialist.
www.thesartorialist.blogspot.com
Texan-born Jane Aldridge has gained one
of the highest of accolades in the fash-
ion blogging world: an endorsement from
none other than Mr Kanye West. A fellow
appreciator of the very finest in footwear, it
would seem that Kanye enjoys Jane’s flam-
boyant, too-much-is-never-enough vintage/
designer style. Her personal style posts
are always rich in colour and luxurious tex-
tures; both Jane and her mother are col-
lectors of all things fashion: from vintage
couture to the most unusual accessories
(they both have something of a fetish for
animal jewellery). All this, combined with a
shoe collection to make any fashionista’s
eyes water. Jane recently posted a photo-
graph of her Shoe Wall: you name it, it’s on
there - Margiela cowboy boots, YSL cage
shoes, Chanel bow booties, Prada chande-
lier sandals... Every iconic shoe a girl could
want, and more.
www.seaofshoes.com

