FOOD
FELIX
FRIDAY 03 DECEMBER 2010
34
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Awana: Malaysia’s pride
Your review
Dana says:
eBay, a place to get cheap steals and gorge at un-
attainable Lanvin dresses. Now it’s also a place to
buy Heston Blumenthal’s Christmas Pudding for Wait-
rose. At the time of writing this article, the going price
was £77.00 + £7.00 P+P
. Originally selling at £13.99
instore, you’re probably wondering why the hell people
are parting with their cash so easily for a silly little
Christmas pud. Firstly it’s not little: it feeds 10-12 peo-
ple. And it’s no ordinary pud either. Drenched heavily
with English Cider and Spanish sherry, you’ll be sur-
prised to find that it holds a whole orange inside all
its goodness.
Heston’s hidden orange pleasure pud
People tell me a job as a food critic would get
boring. Good food, VIP treatment and food ba-
bies (don’t pretend like you don’t know what I
mean) – it’s a hard life, isn’t it?
Walking down towards Sloane Avenue, you
bypass the size 0 mannequins adorned with
Chanel handbags, Ferragamo coats and Jim-
my Choo heels. No you haven’t misread this
as the Fashion section. But it isn’t exactly my
regular stroll up to my next dinner location
either. I’m hunting for the highly acclaimed
Awana, Malaysian restaurant of the year, in
Brompton. You get a feeling that this is not
your average Kiasu (student friendly Malay-
sian in Bayswater), with 19” LCD screens
dotted around the restaurant showing the view
at the Satay Grill, where apart from the satay,
the chef also prepares the roti canai and roti
tissue which guest star in this review later.
The choice is vast, with a special menu pay-
ing homage to the chilli crab festival that oc-
curs every September-December period. The
satay is a must. There is nothing skimpy about
it – just big lumps of corn-fed chicken that are
freshly prepared at the Satay Bar and brought
over within minutes, so no chance of food poi-
soning. Best not mention those hellish words
in conjunction with a restaurant I’m trying my
best to portray positively... The satay comes
with red curry or dal curry sauce; two small
pots of pleasure.
The beef rendang is Awana’s proud baby,
winner of the Malaysian Curry Fest, hosted
by Malaysian Kitchen earlier in August. With
it, there was also the butterfish, a much lighter
option compared to the rendang, wrapped in
banana leaf and grilled with chilli ribbons and
lemongrass sauce. The complementary coco-
nut rice was definitely not the standard sludgy,
almost porridge-like coconut rice I have been
served before, so fear not, it’s safe to order.
But the star of the show was definitely the roti
tissue. For those not familiar with this type of
‘tissue’, it’s safe to say there is no Kleenex in
Awana’s snazzy restaurant front is not an illusion, it looks as good as it tastes
The best (roti) tissue you’ll find in London
2 clementines
peel of 1 lemon
peel of 1 lime
250g caster sugar
6 whole cloves
1 cinnamon stick
3 fresh bay leaves
1 whole nutmeg
1 whole vanilla pod, halved
2 star anise
2 bottles of Chianti, or other Italian red wine
Peel large sections of peel from your citrus fruit. Put
the sugar in a large saucepan over a medium heat,
add the peel and squeeze in the clementine juice.
Add the cloves, cinnamon stick, bay leaves and about
10 to 12 gratings of nutmeg. Throw in your halved
vanilla pod and stir in just enough red wine to cover
the sugar. Let this simmer until the sugar has dis-
solved and bring to the boil. Keep on a rolling boil
for about 4 to 5 minutes, or until you’ve got a beauti-
ful thick syrup. When your syrup is ready, turn the
heat down to low and add your star anise and both
bottles of wine. Gently heat the wine and after around
5 minutes, when it’s warm and delicious, ladle it into
glasses and serve. You can keep this on a low heat
for hours and serve as and when guests arrive.
Mulled Wine
Italy may be home to the greatest number of
UNESCO World Heritage Sites in the world,
however, as of last week the French can boast
pipping the Italians to arguably the most ques-
tionable of awards ever granted by the United
Nations’ cultural organisation. The French
multi-course gastronomic meal has been
named to the Convention of Intangible Cultural
Heritage.
The central argument to securing ‘la cuisine
française’s’ new status appears to be, in the
words of President Sarkozy, that the French
have “the best gastronomy in the world, at least
from our point of view.” Perhaps, but Michael
Winner is the best food critic in the world,
from his point of view, and he hasn’t made it to
UNESCO status.
The argument that promoting French food to
this level will “stem the rising tide of snacks,
fast-food and TV dinners”, in the words of An-
nick Vin of the French heritage and gastron-
omy mission also does not hold. In that case,
why is Jamie Oliver not a cultural heritage? Or,
God forbid, Trinny and Susannah. If defending
Haute cuisine merits a UNESCO badge, then
surely the guardians of ‘Haute Couture’ de-
serve one too?
The committee also added that one of the
reasons behind its choice was that French gas-
tronomy is a “social custom aimed at celebrat-
ing the most important moments in the lives of
individuals and groups.” Not only will Italians
balk at this statement, knowing full well that
they have their own form of haute cuisine for
special occasions, but so too will any under-
graduate that has ever celebrated a hangover
from an epic night out with a full English break-
fast. If foie gras, soufflé, and stinky cheese can
make it to UNESCO’s list, why shouldn’t fried
eggs, beans, and black pudding? Wouldn’t it be
nice to see the words “spotted dick” on the list
of cultural heritage items?
The French ambassador to UNESCO, Cath-
erine Colonna, stated that “the French love
getting together to eat and drink well and en-
joy good times in such a manner. It is part of
our tradition - a quite active tradition.” Do the
hoards of French school children that descend
upon McDonalds daily for lunch fall under this
statement? Or the 18-year-old lycéens that grab
a pre-kip kebab at the local Lebanese at 2am?
Who is to say what food deserves cultural
heritage status (apart from nondescript UNES-
CO fat cats based in Paris of course, wining
and dining at the best restaurants)? Food is
an art and as with all forms of art there are no
truths, only perspectives. Ranking sushi, curry,
and pizza is akin to ranking Katsushika Hoku-
sai, Anish Kapoor, and Botticelli. Haute French
cuisine has always been a difficult, subtle, and
extravagant affair. But sometimes, fresh, sim-
ple food is enough to entice a palate. Variety is
the spice of life, and a country’s cooking tradi-
tions are central to its identity. Indeed, if one
takes tangible statistics as truths, then Tokyo
now boasts more Michelin stars than Paris –
does that make it a better city gastronomically?
Food is more than a necessity; it is more than
a microwavable meal; it defines who we are,
and can enhance our understanding of a culture.
Perhaps the problem lies in the definition of the
UNESCO award - it is granted to “intangible”
jewels of mankind. That only 178 practices
have made the grade is incredulous, especially
considering that there are 193 countries in the
world. The whole scheme is absurdly preten-
tious, vulgar and kitsch. So much so that even
Michael Winner has no reason to howl “calm
down dear!”
Some like it Haute
Charles Betts
French gourmet named UN heritage
By Jamie Oliver
sight, and it is perfectly edible. It uses the same
ingredients as roti canai, but the dough is spun
out so incredibly thin that it is quite simply a
1mm thin pancake, about 2 feet in diameter;
almost as big as our fish eyes gawking at the
sheer size.
I believe a plug is due, and I’m here to tell you
that Awana is offering a 3-course lunch for £15
every day of the week so no need to feel sore
Awana 85 Sloane Avenue, Chelsea SW3 3DX.
Nearest tube: South Kensington 020 7584 8880
Dana Li
Satbbir/Flickr

