unionpage
We Are Metric gives you the opportunity
to host a night in our new nightclub
Metric. Open to Clubs, Societies and
Projects as well as Halls of Residence,
this is a great opportunity to team up with
the Union Entertainments team to host
club nights and events for your fellow
students to enjoy.
Hosting one of these nights will be a great
way to raise the profile of your group, as
well as making a little bit of money for it.
It is well worth your time and effort as
it can help you to promote your group to
other students and help them learn more
about what you do. It will give them a
chance to experience something new,
and for your members it will be a fantastic
WeAre Metric
imperialcollegeunion.org
Your Club, Society or Project’s chance to host a night in Metric
opportunity to put on an interesting and
exciting event for others to enjoy. The
theme of the event doesn’t have to be
tied into your group’s core activities; it
could simply be an idea you’ve had that
you think others will enjoy taking part in.
Although we want as many ideas and
people to take part in this process as
possible, there are also some things we
don’t want. We would like events people
can take part in and enjoy, this is what
these nights are all about, however we
don’t want events that people come along
to simply for cheap alcohol and a cheap
night. These nights are not bar nights
or opportunities for budding nightclub
promoters!
Ravi Pall
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Study SkillsWeek
Study Skills Week, 6-10 December is
designed to tie together all the study
skills support currently offered at Imperial
with some fun and friendly student faces
thrown in and bring it to you just before
the revision break.
Really useful links:
-For College’s study guide in pdf form
visit:
www.imperial.ac.uk/students/studyguide
-For top tips on stress management
and details of exam stress workshops
run throughout the year, visit: www.
imperialcollegehealthcentre.co.uk/exam.
php
-For more library workshops and useful
tips, visit: www.imperial.ac.uk/library/
news/studyskills
Timetable
Monday 6 December
• 13.00-14.00 Training Room 1, Central Library:
How to use RefWorks
Tuesday 7 December
• 12.00-14.00 Activity Space 1 & 2: Tea and
Wisdom – tea, biscuits and tips from older
students!
• 13.00-14.00 Training Room 1, Central Library:
Using CSA Illumina
In the past there have been many
successful events held by students such
as Imperial Idol and Battle of the Bands.
We are looking for more events like these.
To host your night at Metric you need
to go online to imperialcollegeunion.
org/wearemetric. Here there is more
information on this opportunity and the
process to get your night chosen. There
are also some example events to get your
creative juices flowing!
Fill in a request form, complete this
and submit it. Then our Entertainments
Committee will look at requests and then
inform successful applicants. A date can
then be booked and planning can start.
The application process is now underway.
If you are interested in hosting a club night
at Metric next term (January – March
2011) fill out the form and send it to dpfs@
imperial.ac.uk or hand in a printed version
at Union Reception, Floor 2M Union
Building. The deadline for submissions is
midnight 10 December.
• 12.00-13.00 Ethos: Free Circuits Class-suitable
for everyone
• 13.15 RSM G.02: Free Creative Meditation
Session
• 17.15-18.00 Ethos: Free Kondi Class-upbeat
fitness suitable for all
Wednesday 8 December
• 13.00-14.00 Training Room 2, Central Library: Top
tips for successful studying
Thursday 9 December
• 12.15-13.00 Ethos: Free Kondi Class- upbeat
fitness suitable for all
• 12.00-13.30 RCSU Office: RCSU Exam Surgery -
drop in to talk to friendly faces about any worries
• 13.00-14.00 Training Room 1, Central Library:
Using Web of Science
• 13.10-13.40 Chaplaincy Prayer Room: Introduction
to Silence and Stillness
Friday 10 December
• 12.00-13.30 RCSU Office: RCSU Exam Surgery
• 13.10-13.55 Chaplaincy Prayer Room:
Mindfulness Meditation
Tuesday 14 December
• 12.00-13.30 RCSU Office: RCSU Exam Surgery -
drop in to talk to friendly faces about any worries

