TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 3 DECEMber 2010 37
Because there’s only so much self-discovery and figurative bridge-building you
can handle before you’re in desperate need of a well-deserved heroin cookie
Back on the beaten track
This heavily travelled part of the world
offers great variety in the potential cir-
cuits suited to the varied tastes of the
people you meet out there: if you want
to stay well off the track it’s more than
easy to do so, or you can hop on and off
the track as and when you please, as I
did. Some people prefer the somewhat
more reductionist ‘circuit’, bouncing
between Thailand’s infamous full moon
parties on Koh Phangan and tubing in
Laos’ Vang Vieng.
Vang Vieng is a tiny lethargic village
sat alongside the Mekong River, sur-
rounded by a scrum of beautiful moun-
tains and plenty of rice paddies. When
you look at it from a moral standpoint
the thoughts are certainly sombre, as it’s
a real indication of the perils tourism
can inflict on otherwise savvy destina-
tions. Unfortunately the fun and games
on offer here aren’t truly Laotian and
often people miss the point of visiting
this country. It’s like visiting Amster-
dam and spending all of your time in a
coffee shop: extremely fun but not the
be-all and end-all.
After a 27 hour bus ride on the infa-
mous ‘death bus’ (curse you, pledge of
no unnecessary overland flights) from
Hanoi and a stopover in Laos’ sleepy
capital Vientianne, the chaos that this
place offered was certainly welcomed.
I’d left my previous clan to do some
trekking, as they’d decided to stay put
in a city to watch a world cup game (that
we lost, naturally), so I had to go on a
bit of a recruitment mission. If there’s
one place where travelling solo is a big
no-no it’s here, so I formed a fellowship
on the bus with a couple of crazies who
turned out to be a good laugh. In partic-
ular, Fearny, who sported an extensive
collection of naked photos from various
wonders of the world.
We checked in to a quaint little guest-
house in town, dumped all of our stuff
and grabbed a taxi upstream. Tubing in-
volves floating the three kilometres back
down the Mekong towards Vang Vieng,
inside an inflatable ring, stopping off at
the various bars on your way down. The
accident rate here is alarmingly high, but
thanks to no concept of health and safety
it’s not been shut down: monsoon sea-
son resulted in some even more interest-
ing experiences as the currents were at
warp speed.
By the time we made it up there at
noon the party was in full swing as shot
glasses were continually refilled and end-
less dubstep blared. It all kicks off at the
imaginatively-named ‘Bar One’ where
you can plunge from 20 metres from a
tree swing into the fast-flowing muddy
river below. I’d been warned about the
rocks and diseases but was determined
to ignore the sensible advice, until I saw
a girl total herself on a bed of rocks as
soon as we arrived. Thankfully the bar-
tender doubled up as a doctor and had
her shipped back to town (where there’s
no hospital), and then the music resumed
as everyone proceeded to ‘get on it’.
Scattered along the river at regular
intervals are little wooden shacks, serv-
ing a wide array of drinks, snacks and
shishas. Stationed at each is a dastardly
‘looky-looky man’ who’ll lure you in
by tossing you a rope and pulling you
ashore. You can drink for free all the
way down as long as you’re willing to
stick to the snake, scorpion and hornet
whiskies, which is exactly what I did
(tight budget and all). If you think that
excessive drinking and swimming are
terrible activities to combine, you’d be
right – even more so when we decided
participate in the fun mud-based tug-o-
war and volleyball.
So the process of drifting downstream
continued into the early evening as we
got more and more out of breath. Some
of the bars offer delicious treats that
any child would love in a goody bag:
mushroom muffins, heroin cookies and
the like. Some of the more ‘hardcore’
people there decided that these would be
the real cherry on the danger cake, and
in their stupor missed the final collection
point downstream and ended up in lands
afar only to have to walk back through-
out the night, getting repeatedly bitten
by mosquitoes along the way no doubt.
We made the final dock and headed into
town for the after party.
I guess it’s a bit like freshers’week, but
with a lot more drinking. You wake up at
11, head upstream, drink all day, then get
back into town and begin the bar crawl
that goes on well until the early hours.
While the town lacks a Charlie’s Kebab
the resident sandwich stalls are truly ter-
rific –mouth-watering bacon with melted
cheese and any sauce you’d like awaits
your drunken self as you stagger out of
the bars at sunrise. For some people this
routine continues for weeks but for me a
few days was enough, and surprisingly I
even managed to squeeze in some more
‘cultural’ activities.
The surrounding landscapes are truly
breathtaking and easily explored by bi-
cycle. We took off for the day in search
of the ‘blue lagoon’, a remote little spot
out in the forest. What makes it even
more difficult to locate are the several
false signs on the way, intentionally
set up to trap tourists into visiting other
‘lagoons’. A day of cycling through the
beautiful rice paddies was just awesome
as we got to interact with many of the
villagers and see so many great sights.
Easily the best sight of the day was be-
ing honoured the position of photogra-
pher by Fearny, who wanted to broaden
his blossoming penis portfolio.
Conjunctivitis was at an all time high
while I was there, what with everyone
lacking an active immune system and
sharing needles (well, beds). Thankfully
I invested the 20p in eye drops as a pre-
cautionary measure so managed to avoid
the unpleasantness. I did however have
a slight near-death experience when I
attempted kayaking further upstream:
Steph and I were the epitome of com-
placency and failed to acknowledge the
impending rapids and proceeded to cap-
size into a thorny tree. I’ve never felt as
stupid as I did when the bag containing
our passports, cameras and bank cards
floated downstream, but thanks to some
emergency whistles we were rescued
and the bag was recovered unscathed.
Just to top off the hilarity, we made
it the 20km downstream to the bars and
decided to get as drunk as possible. We
were about to migrate to the next bar
via the inviting rickety bridge, only to
see a screaming girl fall through said
bridge and get carried away by the cur-
rents. At that point we decided that we’d
head back and unwind with a massage
and quit while we still had our lives (and
passports). Massages there were cheap
and brutal – a truly winning combina-
tion. My only qualm is that upon refusal
of cheeky extras the brutality peaked
and I left the parlour in more pain than
when I entered: standard. I plonked my
backpack on my achy spine and hopped
on the bus north in search of waterfalls
and monasteries.
that we’d swim down and not bother
paying for the inflatable rings. And
along the way we continued to plunge
from swings and slides into the river and
“If you think that ex-
cessive drinking and
swimming are terrible
activities to combine,
you’d be right”
Chris Richardson
Voluptuous blondes await your charm and charisma
You! Boy! Come here or I beat you with big stick
Sweet, nourishing, contaminated mud

