NEWS
FELIX
4
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
tudents hit the streets of London once again
this week to rally against the proposed rise
in University tuition fees. Traffic was brought
to a standstill as thousands of sixth form and
university protesters sped through Central Lon-
don in separate marches, avoiding police attempts to block
them for fear of being ‘kettled’ again.
The scheduled march from Trafalgar Square to Whitehall
was supposed to set off at 2pm, accompanied by a police
escort. This was not to be, as an early departure caught
police off guard and with protesters rapidly approaching
Whitehall, along the pre-arranged route, a police cordon
was deployed to block their path.
Following last week’s Westminster protest where stu-
dents were ‘kettled’ for hours without access to food or
water, there was a general feeling of panic in the crowd.
Seeing their route blocked, protesters spilled out into side
streets, forming several smaller marches in an attempt to
evade police entrapment.
The crowd detoured past Hyde Park Corner, Piccadilly and
Oxford Street in what has been dubbed, “Protest Monopo-
ly”. Activities were largely harmless, with protesters wav-
ing to startled members of the public as booming reggae
swept along the city streets.
As time wore on, many of the previously fragmented
groups returned to Trafalgar Square, where several speech-
es were made from the plinth below Nelson’s Column. With
police blocking every road out of the square and the snow
falling harder with every passing minute, the crowd slowly
dispersed via a controlled exit onto Charing Cross Road.
As the evening progressed, there was violence as a small
group of protestors refused to leave Trafalgar Square. Com-
ing to the end of a day of peaceful protest, 146 arrests
were made and a protestor and a police officer suffered
head injuries and was taken to hospital.
The Metropolitan Police have come under fire for their lack
of presence at the Milbank riots and later for their ‘kettling’
tactics used on 24 November. A Judicial Review is currently
underway at the High Court in relation to exactly the same
tactics that were used in the G20 climate protest. The Met
denied any claims that they intended to kettle protesters at
this week’s protest and said they formed the cordon to keep
people away from an exposed gas line on Whitehall.
President Aaron Porter this week apologised for his
“spineless dithering” and ensured that all student protests
and activism will be supported by the NUS.
Plans for further protests are underway, with protests be-
ing held in London on Sunday 5 and on Thursday 9, the
date of the parliament vote on raising tuition fees . A can-
dle-lit vigil is also planned, with 9000 candles (represent-
ing the new maximum fee rate) being lit on the eve of the
parliament vote.
After the events of the previous three weeks, today’s pro-
test was relatively mild. Although the movement has man-
aged to shed most of its violent elements, it is yet to be
seen whether momentum has also been lost. Furthermore,
there are worries that University students’ departure over
the Christmas period will cause the campaign to stall.
Will the protesters achieve the goals they have been
seeking, or will the police stamp out any further rebellion?
Only time can tell.
S
‘PROTEST
MONOPOLY’
Words and photos by Miles Robertson
Friday 03 december 2010

