FELIX 5
NEWS
T
he government’s planned changes
to university funding are anything
but inconsequential. Protests and
sit-ins have sprung up at univer-
sities around the country, but the
anger does not seem to have reached Impe-
rial in any significant way. Walking around
campus, the only signs of opposition to these
changes are a few discreet posters. Indeed, the
Imperial Student Union’s Council recently
voted to broadly support the Browne review,
which proposes lifting the tuition fee cap for
home students.
On the face of it, there does seem to be a
widespread apathy concerning the govern-
ment’s policy among many students. There are
many possible reasons for this. Imperial has an
exceptionally large proportion of international
students: 34.5%, compared to 23.9% for UCL,
whose student body is one of the most vocal
about government policy. Most importantly,
Imperial does not offer arts subjects, which will
suffer the brunt of the government’s cuts; many
will see an 80% cut in their funding while some
will receive no funding at all. In addition, fund-
ing for science subjects is being protested. Sim-
ply put, Imperial students will not be affected
as severely as those at other universities. They
have little motivation for action, with many of
the students interviewed reluctant to disrupt
their tight schedule of lectures and labs to go
and protest. Other students, while accepting
that the funding changes will cause difficulties,
grudgingly agree with them. Michael Lewis,
a second year Chemical Engineering student,
summarised this saying that though he believed
in “no fees, with the country in its current state,
the increases are necessary”.
There are, however, some signs of resistance.
This Tuesday Imperial for Education organised
a discussion on opposing the budget cuts and
tuition fee increases, and led a small contingent
of Imperial students to the protests in central
London. Reuben Gibbons, who is heavily in-
volved in this group, believes that the proposed
80% cut in government funding to higher
education, will be detrimental to universities,
which will be unable to recoup the losses by
charging higher fees as these will discourage
many applicants. He rejects Union President
Alex Kendall’s views that the debt will not
adversely affect students because the amount
that they will have to pay back will be tied
to their earnings. Gibbons points out that the
debt will still be a real burden, especially with
graduates paying it back for 30 years, without
an option for earlier repayment, and with the
interest rate being higher than what it is now.
Caroline Clark, another member of Imperial
for Education, believes that “it is inevitable
that students from poorer backgrounds will be
put off” and that the highest charging univer-
sities under the new system, which are almost
certain to include Imperial, will only be “acces-
sible to the privileged elite”. She believes that
“the government should increase taxes on the
rich and clamp down on tax avoidance” instead
of raising fees. Union President Alex Kendall
rejected their arguments saying that “the only
way to ensure that students can still come to
Imperial, and that Imperial has enough fund-
ing, is by raising fees but also ensuring that
bursaries and the necessary support is there to
ensure access for all.”
Gibbons believes that “people care the same
here as elsewhere” about these issues but that
they lack the support of the Union. This was
corroborated by a number of students, with a
group of first year undergraduates saying that
they had no time to organise action against the
cuts without the Union’s help. They were angry
about its policy and thought that they had little
chance to influence it. This highlighted the
very poor communication between the Union
and the students that it is meant to represent.
None of the first years knew the dates of the
Union Council meetings or how to contact
Council members, despite one of them being a
year rep himself. Deputy President (Education)
Alex Dahinten rejected the criticisms saying
“we promoted the Council debate extensively.
Students had ample opportunity to voice their
concerns if they strongly disagreed with the
policy that we put forward.” He did however
say that the Union plan to revisit and adjust the
policy in January.
Imperial for Education is critical of how
the Union’s means of determining students’
views about funding issues. According to Gib-
bons the student survey was limited, asking no
questions about maintenance loans, and only
including about 5% of students. Despite this,
he believes that Council was premature to draw
up its policy on funding before consulting its
results, which seem to suggest that students
prefer the current system. Only 5.3% of those
surveyed, agreed to students leaving university
owing more than £30,000, which are certain
to exceed if Imperial raises its tuition fees to
the predicted £9,000. Alex Dahinten conceded
that he “had the wrong expectations about how
many students would participate in the survey”
and while not wishing to dismiss the results,
said that they were unrepresentative of the stu-
dent body as 54% of respondents were in their
1st year.
Almost all of the Council members who vot-
ed on the Union’s policy have refused to answer
questions on their decision. Only 4 out of the
35 elected student representatives were willing
to speak to Felix. Union Advocate Naida Dzi-
gal rejected the policy saying that she support-
ed free higher education. CGCU Academic
Affairs Officer Marcus Ulmefors has decided
to oppose a large increase in fees as he fears
that they might discourage EU home students,
a view supported by a number of current stu-
dents. SCC Chair Rhodri Oliver, however, said
that he still supported the motion while RCSU
President Scott Heath argued for the need for
a new opinion poll that covers more areas and
has better designed questions. He is quite open
to the Council changing its policy based on the
results of this new survey and face-to-face con-
sultation with students . Union President Alex
Kendall conceded that there was a need to
properly gauge student opinion as “the debate
has really grown recently”. CGCU Academic
Affairs Officer Marcus Ulmefors has decided
to oppose a large increase in fees as he fears
that they might discourage EU home students,
a view supported by a number of current stu-
dents. Even those council members who con-
tinue to support fee increases point out that
the Council’s priority is to help students, with
Recreational Clubs Committee Chair Nathaniel
Bottrell stressing the Union’s commitment “to
campaigning for scholarships and bursaries to
enable the brightest students to come to Impe-
rial regardless of their background”. Despite
this there is no indication that the Union is go-
ing to support or organise the type of action
seen at Universities such as Oxford and UCL.
Alex Kendall told Felix that “students are wel-
come to protest but I think that [the Union’s]
time is better spent working for our students. It
may be dull but it does more to improve their
university experience”.
When will Imperial march?
While students around the country have been taking direct action, Imperial has re-
mained quiet. Maciej Matuszewski finds out why
Students are reluctant
to disrupt their tight lab
and lecture schedules
Are you angry
about the
proposed
changes? Let
us know at
felix@imperial.
ac.uk
Mitesh Patel
Are Imperial students too busy juggling coursework to join the protests?
Friday 03 december 2010

