NEWS
FELIX
6
Imperial organises
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
‘Imperial for Education’ to build
opposition to cuts on campus
A
s the parliamentary
vote on tuition fees
draws nearer, the in-
tensity of the student
protests against higher
fees, education cuts and the scrapping
of the EMA has rapidly increased. With
occupations of university buildings hap-
pening all across the country, the reac-
tionary protests have morphed into a
new grassroots movement of students,
academics, school kids and trade union-
ists. The defining images of the protests
are still pictures of violence and chaos
from Millbank Tower on the 10th of
November; but a visit to the UCL occu-
pation is proof of how unrepresentative
that incident was.
Upon entering the occupation in the
Jeremy Bentham room at UCL, there
are three details which I immediately
notice. First is the sheer number of peo-
ple who are in the room. Second is the
variety of the protestors; looking around
I can see students from different ethnic
backgrounds, post graduates and staff.
The last and most striking detail is what
the protestors are doing.
Picture the scene. A protestor stands
up in a room giving a preamble to the
issue at hand to an audience of about
one hundred. Quiet murmuring can be
heard all around. A polite hand is raised
and the microphone is handed over. The
new speaker stands up and starts talk-
ing passionately into the microphone;
audience members wave their hands in
the air to show approval. Suddenly, as
the speaker approaches a controversial
point, hands shoot up, and the micro-
phone is passed on quickly. This is de-
mocracy at its purest; where everyone
is involved in the decision making pro-
cess and no opinions are ignored. Simi-
lar events are happening all across the
country – these are the ‘New Student
Protesters’.
These thoughtful, articulate activists
are a far cry from the thuggish brutes de-
picted in the media. There is no sense of
unyielding obstinacy and discussion is
encouraged. Indeed, disagreements hap-
pen frequently, and heated discussions
follow, but the atmosphere is anything
but hostile.
That is not to say that the underlying
purpose of the occupation has changed.
The protestors still feel extremely
strongly the issue of the tuition fee cap
and the cuts to education funding. But
as internal support for the occupation
has increased, the demands of the oc-
cupation have changed to reflect that.
A student explained that since the oc-
cupation enjoys support from some of
the academics and the support staff, the
demands have changed to tackle other
issues as well; such as the wage of the
support staff and the job cuts of academ-
ics.
The organization of the occupation
is very impressive. Protestors are split
into groups which tackle certain issues,
reporting back to the main body of pro-
testors at each general meeting. And
yet there is no leading figure organizing
the whole of the occupation. Every de-
cision is made via a consensus or vot-
ing system, truly reflecting the views of
the majority. From speaking to several
students, it is clear that this system is
working well. They explain to me that
they feel as though all of their actions
contribute directly to the movement, and
consequently any successes are much
more satisfying.
Integral to this feeling of solidarity
is the overwhelming show of support
from other universities. Support mes-
sages from universities across the UK,
such as Oxford, Newcastle and Leeds,
and even from universities abroad, such
as Sydney and Pisa, are plastered all
across the walls. The occupation also
hosts workshops on peaceful forms of
protests which students from across
the UK regularly attend. The message
is clear; ‘We are not isolated. We are
part of something much, much bigger-
something that could make a differ-
ence’.
The scale of the occupation has also
attracted visitors from across the coun-
try. During my visit, I met students from
Manchester, Nottingham and Brighton
who had all come to show their support
of the movement. It is not just students
either; media, representatives of the
trade unions, feminist groups, public
figures (including Polly Toynbee, Billy
Bragg and Emmy the Great) and social-
ist organizations all frequently visit the
occupation. Speaking to a representa-
tive of a socialist organization, who
would not clarify which organization
he was representing, believes that they
can use the momentum gained by the
student protests to point out other per-
ceived injustices in the coalition gov-
ernment’s policy; such as public sector
job cuts.
It is clear that lessons have been
learnt from the NUS marches. The pro-
testors were careful of what was being
said in my presence, and some of the
So what
happens at an
occupation?
As lecture theatres around the country
play host to student activists, Ian Wei
reports from the UCL occupation
“These thoughtful, articulate
activists are a far cry from the
thuggish brutes often depicted
in the media”
The champagne socialists at the meeting ar
Ian Wei
Friday 03 december 2010
Students grill President Alex Kendall about what
they see as a lack of representation in the Union
The first signs of opposition to the government’s
higher education proposals are emerging at Imperial.
‘Imperial for Education’, a group opposed to higher
education cuts, held its first meeting in the SAF lobby
on Thursday.
18 students attended the organizing meeting which
was also attended by Union President Alex Kendall
who said that “although I disagree with their views,
I’m glad that students are getting involved in the de-
bate and voicing their opinions in a democratic way”.
The students were extremely critical of the Presi-
dent and the Union’s stance on the higher education
issue, saying that they thought the Union’s higher
education policy was passed prematurely without a
proper understanding of student opinion. They also
questioned whether the Union was being representa-
tive on the issue of higher education with one stu-
dent asking, “Why do we have a Union at all?”
Direct action such as an occupation was also dis-
cussed with opinion divided between those who felt
that such action would alienate other students and
those who believed that there was a need to “break
down the picture that everything is all right.” One
student commented that occupations were probably
more interesting to people outside of the university
than those actually at Imperial.
There was a rejection of what the students saw
as the privatization of universities. “I don’t agree
with the choice between £3,000 or £9,000 tuition
fees. Education is a public good. It should be free
and funded through higher taxation on the wealthy”
said one student. However, in what was an open dis-
cussion with differing opinions, another student said
that the focus should be on “preserving the standard
of education.”
Imperial for Education organizer James Goldsack
said that the meeting was “productive” and that it al-
lowed “students to express their views and opinions
on the rise in fees and the funding cuts”. The next
steps were to “get as many students out on Thurs-
day to protest on the day of the vote and to take a
paper to Council to get the policy on higher education
changed.” Kadhim Shubber
Kadhim Shubber

