FELIX 9
NEWS
or crippling debt?
eir student debt affects their lives
What do you do now?
I'm a researcher at a thinktank that fo-
cuses on international security. I spe-
cialize in nuclear weapons and disarma-
ment. I studied Physics at Imperial for 3
years and I graduated in 2008 with a 2:1.
I moved from a 4 year course to a 3 year
course because I wanted to do a different
masters and I didn't want to waste my
money on doing the masters at Imperial.
Did you have a good idea of how much
debt you were accumulating at uni-
versity?
I was very aware of the cost of my degree
when I was at Imperial. I was assisted
by my parents and I was also sponsored
and so I wasn't under any illusions about
how much debt I was accumulating. I
was very grateful for the support that I
had. If I had lived off my student loan
only I would have had a very restricted
university experience.
How big an impact does the debt re-
paymnet have on your life?
I haven't been able to afford to start
paying back my student debt yet. Even
though I have a good job and I earn
more than the average salary, the repay-
ments would mean I couldn't afford my
rent. I don't have an expensive lifestyle,
I don't drink or smoke and I don't spend
a huge amount on clothes. I've tried liv-
ing at home to save on rent but because
of high rail fares the savings were rela-
tively small and I was spending 3 hours
traveling every day. The problem is that
London is an expensive place to live and
work, and I haven't gone into a career
which immediately pays a large salary.
How has your debt affected the deci-
sions you're making?
Anyone looking at the system rationally
would be motivated to take a high-pay-
ing job rather than a low-paying job that
is worthwhile to society. If I had less
debt I could take more risks and take a
less certain, more difficult but more ful-
filling career path.
What do you think of the govern-
ment’s proposals?
I think that a progressive graduate tax
would be the fairest solution. It recog-
nizes that students benefit financially
while also recognizing that some benefit
more than others. The main problem that
I have with the changes is that I don't
want future generations of able students
to be forced to go into the highest paid
professions at the cost of wider society.
Would you have been deterred by the
increased fees?
I wouldn't have been deterred but I'm
not certain that I would have come to
London with the new fees. I think that
people are understanding more and
more the significance of the debt that
they are taking on. Before the financial
crisis, in prosperous times, it would have
been relatively straightforward to find a
highly-paying job and pay off your stu-
dent loan. Now that people are less and
less certain that they'll find employment
after graduating, I think that they'll start
to reconsider entering into the amount of
debt that one incurs from a degree; even
under the current system never mind
with the new proposals.
Do you think that you will pay off all
of your debt?
Yes I will. I'd feel bad if I didn't pay it
all off because I do think that students
should contribute to their education. I'm
hoping to pay it off within 10-15 years.
I'd love to pay it off next week.
Have you found that your debt affects
your dealings with your bank?
I haven't had any problems and my cred-
it card company treats me no differently.
In fact they're worryingly generous…
“Even though I
earn more than the
average salary, the
repayments would
mean I couldn’t
afford my rent”
STUDENT
DEBT
Graduate Andrew Somerville
talks to Kadhim Shubber about
the burden of student debt
that because society as a whole benefits
from those that hold degrees in a wide
range of fields, the general public should
shoulder higher education’s financial
burden via tax increases. They believe
that a system of variable fees with some
universities charging more per year than
others inappropriately creates a kind of
market within higher education, and that
it is wrong to burden students with such
an amount of debt at such an early stage
in their careers. This line of criticism is
particularly relevant to today’s continu-
ing debate surrounding the current co-
alition government’s planned rise of the
tuition fee cap to £9,000, as the level of
debt that students graduate with is these
proposals’ most palpable change.
Sarah Church, 21, a recent graduate
of the University of Lancaster, was
amongst the first intake of students
who were affected by the introduction
of top-up fees in 2006. She criticizes
the current system as unfair, stating
that, “At the time, I wasn’t really fazed
by the top-up fees because I was too
excited about starting university. How-
ever, now that I’ve finished, I am wor-
ried about paying my student loan back
because I am in so much debt compared
to my friends who graduated a year
earlier!”
In a speech to the House of Commons
on the 3rd of November 2010, Minis-
ter of State for Universities and Sci-
ence David Willetts outlined the future
of student finance after having listened
“with open minds” to Lord Browne’s
proposals.
Under the proposed changes, the
minimum threshold of £15,000 will be
raised to £21,000, with 9% of earnings
above this again being collected from
the graduate’s salary. According to Wil-
lets, “raising the threshold reduces the
monthly repayments for every single
graduate,” although by the previous
analysis, this will take considerably
longer than 20 years to repay. However,
Willetts continues by making the claim
that around a quarter of graduates with
the lowest lifetime earnings will pay less
than under the system currently in place.
Seeking to address concern from those
who will particularly be disadvantaged
faced with higher fees, Willetts brought
up the intended plan of the ‘National
Scholarships Programme’, a £150 mil-
lion scheme designed to ensure that
“bright potential students from poor
backgrounds” will not be disadvantaged
when applying to university. Benefits
include a free first year or foundation
year in respective courses.
Currently, if annual earnings at any
point fall below the £15,000 threshold
(for example, upon being made redun-
dant), repayments fall to zero. Unlike
a standard bank loan, failure to repay
due to circumstance is not penalised,
and any outstanding debt remaining
after 25 years is written off (a signifi-
cant contrast to the 30 years proposed
by Willetts).
Cantalamessa is opposed to the gov-
ernment’s planned changes, citing the
loss of various “generous grants” and
noting a marked change in the situation
today, “Students now not only have larg-
er debts, as they have to pay triple what
I did for course fees, not to mention that
could triple again, but also are given less
of a maintenance loan to live on.”
Willetts suggests that the changes to
funding “will deliver a better deal for our
students, for our graduates and our uni-
versities.” Graduates of the future will
have no choice but to determine whether
this is a deal worth the consequences.
According to David
Willetts, “raising
the threshold
reduces the monthly
repayments for every
single graduate”
Graduate views
Daisy Cantalamessa 23
University of Manchester
Daisy does not worry about paying back
her student loan, as it is a gradual pro-
cess and will not impose too much of
a burden on her income. However she
is concerned about the possible conse-
quences of carrying the debt. Especially
with regard to applying for a mortgage
or bank loan.
“I feel the current repayment system
is a fair one, although I think we should
be given more control over how much
we pay back. I would definitely feel
differently if my student debt appeared
on my credit records. If I knew that in
the future my student loan could affect
my ability to get a mortgage or a loan,
I might think twice about how relevant
my course was going to be for future
employment or maybe even if going to
university would be the right thing to
do.”
Tom MacDonald 26
University of Northumbria
Tom did not worry about paying back his
student loan until he was promoted to a
managerial position and has since noticed
a considerable deficit in his monthly sal-
ary. “Before being promoted, I hardly no-
ticed the difference in my salary because
it was something as little as nine pounds
a month. Now that I am a manager and
my salary has increased considerably, I
lose approximately [...] seventy pounds a
month repaying my loan.”
When asked about the potential in-
crease in tuition fees, Tom is in agree-
ment with the government. “I believe it,
[the cuts and fees], to be the only way
to get this country back on its feet. The
government had to make cuts to make
up for over-spending when Labour were
in power and if this is one of the only
ways we can get back to some kind of
normality, then so be it.”
Sarah Church 21
University of Lancaster
Sarah was amongst the first students
who were affected by the introduction
of top-up fees in 2006. “I have not start-
ed to pay my loan back yet because I
don’t earn enough money, but I dread
when that time comes and I worry about
how long it will take to pay everything
back.”
Sarah insisted that the current sys-
tem isn’t fair and that there should be
a change in structure of how student
loans are repaid. “First of all, I believe
graduates should have to earn more be-
fore starting to pay back the loan, such
as £20-25,000 a year. I won’t be earning
enough earning £15,000 to live, never
mind starting to pay back debt! Second-
ly, I believe graduates who earn a lot of
money, such as £40,000 a year, should
be made to pay big chunks of their loan
back on a monthly basis.”
Friday 03 december 2010

