Founded 1949 The Newspaper of Imperial College Union
Universities
will close
S O M E UNIVERSITIES will close in the next ten years, says the
Government Green Paper 'The Development of Higher
Education into the 1990s'.
The Government document outlines the short-term policy on
higher education. Based on an assessment of student numbers it says
'it is not improbable that some institutions of higher education will
need to be closed or merged.'
The intention to 'reform' the student support system is re-affirmed,
and one likely result would be the introduction of loans instead of
grants as we know them. The Government says that 'a greater
financial engagement on the part of students would cause them to take
greater care over their choice of study'.
A fundamental change in the structure of degree courses is also
proposed. This includes a broadening of the degree course in
universities and at the same time reducing the length of some degrees.
The Government believes that a limited experiment, in a small number
of universities, should be mounted to test the view that 'a two-year
degree for the most able could become a prestigious award, which
would be highly coveted'.
The Government doubts that present sandwich courses provide
value for money. It proposes to consult advisory bodies to offer
continued on back page
Voluntary unions?
T H E GREEN PAPER makes
specific comments about student
unions, particularly regarding fair
representation of opinion, freedom
of speech and ultra-vires
expenditures.
It is maintained that student
unions have not always been
representative of the student
body as a whole. Policies are
determined and implemented by
a minute proportion of the union
membership, says the Govern-
ment, and the growth of
sabbatical leave for union
officers is also found worrying.
'Only the president of the
union used to be granted leave
from his studies for a year of
office, but this privilege is now
often more widely extended so
that too much influence over
student affairs can be exercised
by a smaller number of students
enjoying sabbatical leave,' it
maintains.
The Government is concerned
that taxpayers' money should not
be used to fund unions that refuse
a platform to speakers whose
views are objectionable to some
students although some students
wish to invite them, that prevent
invited speakers from gaming a
hearing or that permit violence or
the threat of violence to that end.
The Government will consult
as to how student union policies
and actions can be made properly
representative; whether, if that
cannot be achieved, the
automatic membership of
students in student unions can be
justified; and whether the present
numbers of sabbatical officers
are needed in order to manage
the legitimate activities of the
union.
It is made clear that if
voluntary agreements cannot be
achieved on these issues, then
direct action will be taken.
'Nobby' Stiles
gets UGA
H U G H STILES, right, was
awarded a Union General Award
at Tuesday's IC Union A G M .
The UGA is the highest
distinction that the Union can
award. 'Hugh Stiles was RCC
chairman for two years and has'
done valuable work in many
other fields', said Union
President Ian Bull.
Elections were held at the
AGM: Jane Ryder and Tom
Melliar-Smith were elected
ordinary members of Council;
John Ingham, Alan Rose, Tom
Melliar-Smith and Pete Smith,
delegates to GUC; and Pete
Wilson, Haldane Record Buyer.
Returned unopposed were:
Josie Glausiusz, Haldane Book
buyer; Byan Rowen and Andy
Cave, Union House Committee;
and J Martin Taylor, FELIX
Business Manager.
The post of Publicity Officer is
still vacant.
A motion that societies should
be fined for holding events that
clash with UGMs, proposed by
Hugh Southey, was defeated on
the vote.
Other recipients of UGAs were
Ian Bull, Dave Parry, Eric
Darbyshire and David Rowe.
Midsummer dinner dance
A M I D S U M M E R DINNER will be held on Friday 7 June in the
Sherfield Building.
The cost is £9 for students (£4 subsidy) and £11 for staff. This
includes food, wine, and dancing to the Nina Barry Quartet.
Reservation forms are available from the Union Office for students,
and from Room 508 Sherfield for staff. The closing date is Wednesday
5 June.
Staff and students who would like to say goodbye to the Rector and
Lady Flowers may do so on Wednesday 19 June in the Main Dining
Hall, Sherfield between 5.00pm and 7.00pm.
Beer and bangers will be available.
Free! Friday 24 May 1985 No 705

