•NEWS
Universities
continuedfrom front page
guidance on means of ensuring that sandwich courses justify their
extra cost. It is concerned at the extra costs of four year courses, as
well. In some cases, it says, the courses provide training that should
properly be provided by employers. It expects the UGC to control the
shift towards larger courses.
The green paper criticizes academic tenure which has elsewhere
been described as a 'meal ticket for life,' and it is proposed to
introduce legislation to ensure that all universities have the power to
terminate academic appointments on grounds of redundancy or
financial exigency.
As for teaching standards it is said that 'few academics would not
benefit from a programme of systematic development of their
teaching skills.'
The Government Expenditure Plans will require 'continuing gains
in efficiency across higher education.' This implies a further tightening
in Staff-Student Ratios.
Further private financing of higher education is encouraged.
The Government proposes to give highest priority to the provision
of captial equipment, particularly 'new technology'. It is stressed,
however, that there will be scope for no more than 'marginal impact'
on the size of overall capital stock.
The green paper fails to give any concrete indication as to long-term
financial policy. It says, in general, what factors will be involved:
demand for higher education, the country's need for qualified
manpower, the need to stimulate continuing education, the need to
provide for research, the scope for increased efficiency, and the likely
level of 'student support', ie the extent to which students might
progressively begin to pay their way through higher education.
Password leak
THE COLLEGE Computer Centre password file was illicitly accessed
by a student last week.
The student recorded an encrypted version of the file on his own
disks and then used a decyphering key to obtain passwords from job
numbers.
The leak has now been blocked, but users should check their files,
and change their password if necessary.
It seems that no malicious damage was done to any files.
SMALL ADS;
ANNOUNCEMENTS
•Elec Eng Department end of year
party on Wednesday 12 June, 8.00pm
to 12.00pm in the Holland Club. Open
to staff and students alike. Tickets £1,
only available in advance.
•Spare Rooms? Have you got a spare
place in your flat or house for next
academic year? Why not give the
details to Student Services for the
accommodation list.
• D o you like wine or beer. Do you need
a cheap mini-break after exams. If yes
to both of these join the Wine Tasting
Society on a day trip to Boulogne. Few
places left book now to avoid
disappointment. Date 15 June. Cost
£19.50 less big subsidy, see Mark
Masento Biochem 103 extension 4114.
•Allez a France ivec le Wine Tasting
Societe. Nous Allons a Boulogne
cheapo vin, fromage, bier. Sur 15 Juin.
Cost seulment £19.50 moins le
subsidy, few places gauche. See Mark
Masento Biochem 103 ext 4114. Pas
etre mangue.
ACCOMMODATION
•Two rooms and a kitchen situated in
Tooting, suitable for two people
(particularly PGs). The house is five
minutes walk from Tooting Bee tube.
The rooms are available from 1 June at
£208 per month, contact Susan on 672
8274 for further details.
•House on company let available from
June in Roehampton. Nice area nextto
Wimbledon Common and Richmond
Park. One bedroom shared or double,
£30 exc bills. Ring Nick Wooder ext
6866 or 789 9796 evenings.
• O n e single and one double room in
family house in Chiswick. All meals
etc. provided. Contact Mrs M Davies
Tel: 994 2803.
•Flatshare with three males. Hamlet
Gardens flat (not College run)
available 3 June to 29 September, £25
per week, Tel ext 6806 or 741 0003
evenings ask for Dave Robinson.
•Male Chemical Engineer looking for
someone to share double room in 8
Earls Court Square. Kitchen facilities
separate and shared with others. Non
smoker prefered. Contact Yishu Nanda
through Chem Eng letter Racks.
•Flatshare! Double room available
immediately in South Norwood. £25
per week each. Phone 771 4101.
FOR SALE
• M G Midget 1500cc 1978 (T Reg),
excellent condition throughout low
mileage, plus extras £2,000. Contact
Neil int 7777.
• V W Beetle 1500 1970, 71000 genuine
miles. Perfect original condition, four
months tax, 10 months MOT sharp
stereo radio cassette. £875 ono. John
int 6289 or Weeks Hall (5899608) room
68.
•Hi-watt Amplifier 100W, also 4 x 1 2
inch speaker cabinet, £120. Contact
Julian Clarke on int 3640.
LOST
•Wine coloured silk cravat with paisley
design. Contact Sri Moorthy Physics 1.
PERSONAL
•Welsh artist creates paper sculptures
to order, Welsh farmyard scenes a
speciality. Contact The Big D'.
•Wanted student manager to service
Hamlet Gardens and Geology first
year.
•McCavity award for not being there
goes to Nigel Owen.
• O h Julia how I've missed you!
•Paul 'Medallian Man', what you
waiting on?
• A R G — d o you really need to pass
your exams?
•Free coaching in British Bulldog.
Contact Dave Sharpe, c/o Guilds
Office.
•I was happy in the haze of a drunken
hour, but heaven knows I'm miserable
now.
• Hunky sweat pheremones Eve
Strouse 219 Hamlet Gardens.
• A c c e s s cards available—is your
overdraft big enough.
Claim
now
STUDENTS who have submitted
a claim to the City of
Westminister Housing Benefit
Office and have still not received
any benefit or an acknowledge-
ment that their claim has been
received should contact Student
Services as soon as possible.
The department has recently
been re-organised and some
claims may have been mislaid.
Staff expect claims from students
awaiting assessment to still be
waiting in eight weeks time. City
of Westminister Housing Benefit
Office have asked Student
Services to submit a list of
students still waiting for benefit
claims to 'speed up' the
assessment process.
16 Friday 24 May 1985 FELIX

