• T I T E R S :
Letters
Sex
Dear Sir,
Speakng as a woman at IC, I can't say I
found the 'Armchair Perverts' article in the
10.5.85 edition of FELIX particularly
insulting or offensive. It was obvious that the
writer did not take himself too seriously and
the vitriolic reaction to his feature seemed
unjustified to me. In any case it provoked
controversy, a quality which has been lacking
in recent previous editions of this paper. Oh,
and incidentally, I know the author and by
implication I know the 'type of person who
writes such an article' and he isn't that much
different from the rest of us.
Yours sincerely,
M Ibbotson
Chem 2
Dear Sir,
I write in reply to the ill-considered letter
published under the heading 'Revolting
Drivel' in last week's FELIX. It strikes me
that those who write such missives enlighten
the FELIX-reading public only to their own
narrow-mindedness.
The article to which these letters refer,
'Armchair Perverts', was a well-written,
highly entertaining and (as Messrs Gray,
Yeung etc failed to notice) tongue-in-cheek
piece of journalism. Their whitehouse—like
criticism of (and I quote) 'this kind of thing'
serves to demonstrate their illogical belief
that we should be protected from whatever
they consider immoral. I really think it would
come as a surprise to such people that, in the
world of grown-ups, we have a right to make
our own minds up about such things.
The second, rather cliche-ridden, attack on
the piece mentions 'public exhibtions' like
this discourage 'better students' from coming
to Imperial. Displaying the same quality of
inane self-assurance that provoked him to
write in the first place, this author now
assures a correlation between moral
standards and academic prowess! I would
advise him that this is not the case.
The start of the letter, which gives the
section its heading, is hard indeed to reply to
as it doesn't make any point at all. However,
calling its author mindless, without futher
explanation, rebuts it adequately whilst
retaining the style of the original.
Yours faithfully,
A S Thomis
Elec Eng 2
Beer
Dear Sir,
I write to you with great concern regarding
the serving of beer in half litre skiffs yesterday
(Thursday 16 May). For those who still find
SI units a bit confusing, one-half litre =
0.8798769 pints (as far as my humble
calculator will allow) but those being served
were being charged for a full pint.
I for one would not mind being served
metric measures if metric charges are to be
charged, eg. 60p per half litre for a 68p pint of
beer, but to leave some of 'my' beer behind
the Union Bar to be resold to someone else
seems unfair to say the least.
I am also concerned by the current fashion
of leaving a half-inch head on a pint of
Guinness, as this particular half-inch
contains two fluid ounces in a straight glass
and represents a decimatien of the beer.
I look forward to a reply from someone on
the committee for the pricing of the beer in
the IC bars, if in fact such a committee exists.
Yours sincerely
Ed Ashford
Aero 2
Money
Dear Sir,
Rumour has it that, due to the oversight of
Dave Parry, the Union will risk the very
existence of 'high spending' »clubs in the
misguided belief that College will rescue
them.
College knows full well that the number of
applicants is a function of the academic
standing of this College not the prestige of the
union clubs and societies. It will not spend its
precious resources on abandoned clubs.
Only when students get to College are they
delighted with the range of clubs. It is a
matter of Union, not College, prestige that
these clubs are maintained. Without them
what would make ICU better than any other?
All unions have cheap beer and unshaven
hacks but few have progressed beyond the
'banda' copier, still less have an established
radio station and fewer still have television.
Apart from the undeniable quality of its
graduates, this College's media is of more
renown than any other facet of its activity.
Has this fact eluded Dave Parry in his
immature delusion of self-deity? Let us
remember that this financial problem is only
a cut in a widely optimistic increase and as
such the responsiblity lies square on Dave
Parry.
The obvious solution is to keep everyone at
last year's budget and distribute the available
increase impartially according to need.
Yours pragmatically
Richard Copnall
The
axe-man
cometh
The Green Papers on higher education does
little more than to confirm worst fears. Level
funding is out, retrenchment as student
numbers decrease is the name of the game,
and the equivalent of the University of
Southampton will close annually for the next
three years.
There are a few clues, though, as to
Government thinking on higher education
(in as much, as the term 'thinking' can be
applied to the Government). There is a
radical departure from the Robbins
principle—that courses in higher education
should be available for all those who are
qualified to pursue them. The Government
have re-formulated this by saying that
courses should be available to those who can
'benefit' from them and, what is more, that
the benefit has to be sufficent to justify the
cost.
What Sir Keith means is that the benefit to
the economy must justify the cost, in his
opinion. And his perception of what is of
benefit is based on wholly unjustified
assumptions.
He seems to look no futher than the end of
his admittedly prominent nose. He has
identified a demographic trend and a
technological need that apply to the 1990s.
And he uses this to justify a wholesale re-
organisation of higher education which will
continue to be felt long after the demographic
trend has been reversed and the technological
need has changed.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Chris,
Grenville, Nigel, Hugh, John, Pete, Debbie,
Alan, Judith, Sarah and all the collators,
Rosemary, and 'get well soon' to Tony who
has had a motor accident.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed bvthe Union Print
Unit. Imperial College. Prince Consort Road. London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe. Business Manager: Martin Taylor.
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
2 Friday 24 May 1985 FELIX

