EOPINKDN
It may take all sorts to make the world, but here at Imperial
College, that pinnacle of higher education, that bastion of
technology, that epitome of all that's wrong in British
Industry, we can find assembled, dear Miss Brodie, what
surely must be la crime de la creme. Yes, by virtue of
rigorous selection methods, arbitrarily based on unreliable
information, and carfulty chosen at the whim of some
incompetent Head of Department, we have the
quintessential Centre of Excellence; the Best of British
Youth striding boldly forward at the Frontiers of Science.
Just British? Nay! The World! Well, China and the Middle
East, anyway. And what a fine collection of people they are
too...
Carefully chosen at the whim of some incompetent Head of Department
Perhaps you remember learning at school that there was
no such thing as the 'average man', average being a
complete fantasy existing only in the minds of deranged
statisticians and Labour prime ministers. That may be all
very well, but here at Imperial the 'average student' is a
gruesome reality—just a few basic guidelines, some minor
alterations here and there, and you have not just an overall
impression but a clear picture of almost every individual in
College. I don't know whether people actually come here
like that, but rest assured, once caught in the sausage
machine, escape is well-nigh impossible.
Consider then the average Imperial Student; John, shall
we say. John wears jeans and trainers, his proudest
possesion is an IC sweatshirt, his idea of style a nondescript
greyish jacket (Top Man, I shouldn't wonder). A rather sad
figure, John misses his girlfriend-back-home, and goes
home to see her every other weekend, whether she actually
exists or not. Happiness for John and his mates is a night out
on the piss, ecstasy is telling each other all about it for
weeks afterwards. Whatever you do, never, ever, talk to
John about cars, for John is a staunch Guildsman, buys
Autocar every week, and keeps an oily reduction valve and
two piston heads under his pillow.
John misses his girlfriend-back-home
Not a
human
A big hit with the girls...
Now imagine John in a new set of clothes, buttocks and
beer gut squeezed mercilessly into overtight jeans, a rugby
shirt instead of a sweatshirt, and over his shoulder a hard,
masculine, 'action-like' brown leather jacket. A very fine
young man is John; clean-cut, ex-public school, sponsorship
from Daddy's company in South Africa, his wallet a big hit
with the girls. Trouble is, John and his mates are now,
without exception, repressed homosexuals. And the thing
about a repressed homosexual is that he'll go to any lengths
to prove he's not. In short, a typical miner.
...John and his mates are now repressed homosexuals
4 Friday 24 May 1985 FEUX

