OPINION!]
single
being
Another quick change , and John now has long hair,
unwashed for the last six weeks but still nowhere near as
filthy as his jeans, which are fully three inches too short. It's
so hard to get a good pair of flares these days. As far as John
is concerned, Woodstock didn't end in '76, man: they all fell
into a time warp and ended up in the Royal College of
Science. Far out.
I expect you're fed up with John now. Well, call him Charlie
instead, dress him in pointy shoes and a funny haircut.
Charlie hates CCUs, loathes Imperial College, and despises
John in any shape or form. He is a trendy poofter. Not that
he's particularly trendy or necessarily gay, it's just the
general term used to describe Charlie and his kind by the
massed Johns in College, trendy and poofter being the two
most heinous insults that their stunted minds can dream up.
But Charlie hardly even notices. He's in love. With himself.
You may notice that I haven't mentioned girls yet. Wei, I
have now. The interesting thing about the girls in College is
that, contrary to popular belief, there are actually quite a lot
of them here. It's just that in most cases, it's impossible to
tell the difference. Be warned, lads; that big, sound-looking
bloke you've just been talking to could in fact be, yes, horror
of horrors, a girl. And mind your step, too—get into a fight
with one of them and you're a gonner for sure.
In most cases It's impossible to tell the difference.
Gorgeous, blushing, pouting Samantha-she likes boys. Lots of boys.
Then again there's the other end of the female spectrum:
everybody's darling—gorgeous, blushing, pouting
Samantha, always dressed to the teeth, always on the
lookout for the latest hunk of meat. Because Samantha
likes boys. Lots of boys. And they like her, too. It's her
wonderful personality, don't you know. Like hell it is—she
doesn't even know what the word means. Not that that
makes any difference when all she has to do is raise her little
finger and five hundred drooling males rush to her aid. By my
reckoning, these days that's just got to be on a par with a
thousand ships. But at least Helen of Troy was a good screw.
Mind you, all this power doesn't come without some
retaliation—no, we men are made of sterner stuff than that.
Yeah, we men put those women in their place good and
proper, don't we boys? So the girls, all the way through from
the Samanthas to the Janes, have to take refuge in feminist
groups and the collected works of Germaine Greer, for you
see far from deciding that they hate men after all, all they
really want is to have their (beef) cake and eat it as well.
A fine collection of people indeed, dear reader. But surely,
you ask naively, there must be some, even remotely human
people somewhere in College? In the Nat West Bank
possibly? Those bastards? You've got to be kidding. Well
then, how about the staff? Those wonderful, wonderful
lecturers and professors who work so hard to educate us?
Ah yes; the staff. I'm glad you mentioned them...
Suppose you go to a member of staff with a problem.
Suppose it's your lucky day; you manage to find him. You ask
politely for his help. Usually he won't know. Certainly he
doesn't care. And in any case he's got an appointment. Paul
Weller never spoke a truer word.
Of course if you're a girl that's quite another thing. A
friendly pat on the shoulder. An affectionate grope in the lift.
A fatherly hand up your skirt. Creeps? The whole place is
lousy with them.
So you see, dear reader; not one single human being in the
entire place. Except you and me. And as for me, well I'm as
big a bastard as anyone. I wouldn't know about you.
Ian Thomas
Mech Eng 2
FELIX Friday 24 May 1985 5

