EOPINIOR
Transport
and tour
subsidies
The Recreational Clubs Committee
(RCC) has, for many years, given a subsidy
to clubs and societies wishing to participate
in their chosen sport or activity. This subsidy
has included a certain percentage of
transport costs. At the last UFC meeting a
large part of this subsidy was removed in an
effort to save money. I would like to explain
what this means to some of the clubs in RCC.
The transport subsidy is divided into two
categories. One for subsidy of weekend
trips, at any time of year, set at 40% of
transport costs. And one for subsidy of
extended 'out of term' activity, set at 30%.
This latter category is known as a tour grant,
and it is this that has been cut. (The 'term
time' referred to is for undergraduates. For
post-graduates there are four terms each
three months long, so all activity is during
their term time.) As a member of Imperial
College Caving Club I shall exlain what effect
this has on caving at IC. The effects are
similar for Mountaineering, Canoeing, S&G,
YHA, Underwater and a few others including
Wargames and Hamsoc etc who
occasionally go on tour.
Tours constitute a major part of the
activity of IC caving. We usually go on three
tours a year. A week in Yorkshire at
Christmas and Easter, and three weeks in
France during the Summer. The tours are a
much more efficient way of going caving than
weekends. A tour to Yorkshire costs only a
fraction more in transport than a weekend,
as the actual distances driven differ only by
about 30%, for a three fold increase in caving
activity. The Christmas and Easter tours
enable us to run courses at the Whernside
Cave and Fell Centre to ensure that new
people in the club receive proper training and
become familiar with the techniques and
problems of caving. Caving during the week
also enables us to obtain permits for caves
which are very over subscribed at weekends.
The tour during the Summer is the
culmination of the year. It gives people a
taste of caving abroad, in caves which are
very different and often much more
demanding than British caves. It is the
completion of the introduction to caving
which the club is providing. This Summer we
are tackling the Gouffre Berger, the world's
fifth deepest cave. The lack of a tour grant
would make this type of activity that much
more expensive, especially as tours occur at
the end of term when people are short of
money. The RCC clubs represent the
College just as well as the more public sports
of Football, Cricket, Rugby etc, but this
seems to go unrecognised in many circles.
RCC has clubs which are well known and
respected in their particular activity.
Therefore the tour grant cut will mean the
loss of much club activity. The tour grant
represents 37% of Caving Club income from
the Union, but it means the loss of more than
50% of our caving activity, the loss of training
courses and greatly reduced standards of
caving both in terms of difficulty and safety.
Apart from affecting RCC outdoor and
some indoor clubs (and many ACC clubs), it
will also damage the transport system.
The union is paid more for van hire and
mileage than is paid out in subsidy by RCC,
about 1.5p/km more for weekends and
3p/km more for tours. The cutting of tours
will make the transport system less self
financing than at present, as it is at its most
efficient when the clubs are on tour, the
transport system receiving more money for
tours than weekend activity from clubs like
Caving. Caving does about 50% of its mileage
on tour, this represents about 8000km.
Therefore some of the money saved by
cutting tours will have to be used to support
the transport system. Reducing the number
of vans would be a possibility but this would
create term time problems.
The RCC clubs are recognising that cuts
will have to be made, but it is felt that making
massive cuts on a few clubs is a grossly unfair
way of doing things, also , being told where to
cut by someone who knows very little of our
activities is grossly inefficient. Surely we
know best where to cut money from our
grant to do the least damage. I personally
would like to see a unified transport policy for
all activities, either weekend or tour, to apply
to everyone getting a union transport
subsidy. The RCC clubs must raise 20% of
their subsidy from membership
subscriptions. If this could also be made
universal then the present financial crisis
would be much reduced. I hope that the
present financial troubles can be overcome
by rational means and not by random and
devastating cuts on certain clubs.
SreL>e Lane
President IC Caving Club
IC Union Transport Officer
6 Friday 24 May 1985

