FROM THE astronomers of antiquity
through to modern day photographers people
have been making use of the principles of
Remote Sensing. With the advantage of
earth orbiting satellites and other space
missions, a whole new dimension has been
brought to this area of science.
Remote Sensing is really the ability to
perceive and study an object from a distant
location, and it is a technique that is
providing important information about
natural resources and the environment.
The most common way of studying an
object is to record the electromagnetic.
energy emanating from it, but it is also
possible to look at seismic waves,
gravitational force, or sonic waves.
Techonological developments in recent
years have enabled us to sense data beyond
the normal range of human perception,
and useful information can now be gained
from electromagnetic radiation of most
wavelengths, from gamma-rays and x-rays
through to radio waves. There are a
number of different carriers available from
sensors including aeroplanes, helicopters,
balloons, satellites and others spacecraft.
Over the last decade or so satellites have
been increasingly used as carriers because
they provide a means rapidly to monitor
large areas of the earth's surface. Although
the data obtained from satellites is of low
resolution, it can be complemented with
other data, for example aerial
photography, if necessary. A n important
feature of Remote Sensing data, especially
that from satellites, is that it provides an
easy and econimical way to study even the
most hazardous terrain.
Interpretation of data plays an major
role in Remote Sensing, and becomes
particularly complex.when the information
collected is transmitted to the ground in
the form of digital data. Complex
computer processing is then necessary to
produce usable pictures, and the process is
known as image processing. Technological
advances in data handling and processing -
techniques are contributing to the
increased value of Remote Sensing.
Using Remote Sensing techniques
information can be gained that is valuable
in a diverse range of research areas, and in
many cases it can provide a unique tool.
Research activities at the Centre for
Remote Sensing involve a number of
departments and include studies in Earth
resources, botany, agriculture, geology,
atmospheric sciences, oceanography and
planetary sciences. To support research
and to help meet industry's needs it is
important that there is continuous
technolgical advancement. So there is
extensive research in data handling, optical
and digital image processing, and pattern
recognition.
Earth orbiting satellites make global
surveillance possible and the information
gained is giving a new insight into the
Earth's atmosphere oceans and man's
effect upon the climate. The Centre
Remote
Sensing
THE CENTRE FOR Remote Sensing was established at Imperial
College in 1983, and has Dr Gary Hunt as Director. It represents
all the departments that have an interest in Remote Sensing, and
aims to use links between the College, Government, and Industry,
at both national and international levels, to form a firm foundation
for future expansion of the subject. To ensure that the activities
of the Centre keep in touch with industry, the management and
policy are controlled through an inter-departmental Advisory
Committee which has representatives from industry as well as
from College.
One of the Centre's major achievements has been the setting
up of an MSc course in Remote Sensing, in conjunction with the
other colleges of the University of London. It is the first of its kind
in the United Kingdom, and is designed to fulfil needs at national
and international levels for well qualified graduates in Remote
Sensing. A measure of the success of the course is the interest it
is attracting from people working in industry who feel that they
need further education about this subject.
The Centre is located on the seventh floor of the Huxley
building, where there is extensive image processing facilities.
There is also a large archive of digital images from satellites,
(including Meteostat, Landsat, Tiros, Goes, and Seasat) other
space missions (Voyager and Galileo) and aircraft. This data is
available to other institutes of the University of London,
Government, and Industry, as well as staff and students of
Imperial College.
directly receives and processes data from a
number of satellite missions including the
European spacecraft Meteostat, and the
NOAA polar orbiting spacecraft. Theses
observations provide the means for
investigating atmospheric and oceanic
phenomena, with time sequences being
used to study the development of synoptic
systems which are used as a basis for
weather forecasts. The Centre provides
weather forecasts for a number of
television programmes including the BBC's
Breakfast Time, and Thames's News at
Six, and also for a Brazillian T V Channel.
The Centre is also involved in
oceanographic investigations of the sea
surface temperature, sea state, and marine
biological problems in preparation for the
European Ers-1 satellite mission which is
due to go up in 1987. It will carry a
number of microwave instruments
including radar and will be carrying out
ocean observations.
One of the most interesting research
programmes at the Centre is looking at
Planetary atmospheres beyond the Earth.
The Centre has the most extensive archive
of planetary data outside of the United
States, and is also the only place outside of
the United States processing data from the
Voyager mission. Observations from the
Voyager mission have already given a new
insight into atmospheric phenomena on
Jupiter, Saturn, and Titan, and in the
future there will be data on Uranus and
Neptune. Spectropscopic studies from the
International Ultraviolet Explorer (IUE)
satellite are also providing information
about the planets. Another interesting
project is using data from the Viking
spacecraft to look at the atmosphere and
geology of Mars. Future investigations at
the Centre will be making use of
observations of Jupiter from the Galileo
mission, and observations of the planets
from the Earth orbiting Space Telescope.
Information gained from Remote
Top right: A Metostat picture
of the earth
Right: The receiving dish on the
roof of the Physics building
Sensing data has proved to be extremely
valuable in the study of geological
processes. In particular, interpretation of
aerial photographs and satellite data can
give information about the structure and
nature of rock formations. The satellite
images provide a quick appraisal of the
regional geology and can be supplemented
in the key areas by the greater detail of
images from planes. A major research
project at the Centre uses aerial
photographs and data from Landsat for
geological mapping in mineral exploration,
engineering and tectonic hazard
monitoring. The major study areas include
Ireland, S W England, the Pyrite Belt of
Portugal, Spain, Southern Africaand
Mozambique. There are also a number of
research topics under development which
include studies of gold and other minerals,
engineering geology mapping in Brazil and
the assessement of the uses of thermal and
radar imagery for mineral exploration in
glaciated terrain.
Another area where Remote Sensing can
provide a unique tool is in the evaluation,
classification and mapping of vegetation.
There is a long-term research programme
at the Centre looking at the fundamental
interaction between radiation and
vegetation canopies. Extensive field
measurements are being carried out which
are providing an understanding of this
interaction, and can be used to monitor
and calibrate the data obtained from
airborne and Landsat instruments. The
work has revealed irregularities in
vegetation caused by underlying mineral
deposits which will be useful in mineral
explorations.
There is a need for continuous advances
in software and hardware to support the
research and teaching at the Centre. One
aim is to develop specialised hardware,
with a major step forward being the
CD 03 ^ 33
H 3 C
D 3
O O o 3
T to B) °
03 XJ W C
D
§?:sf
S m l .
03 C
O
2 * 3r
—• -j <B
3 C
D 03
CD » =t
_. —
>
03 03 C
D
m
construction of an image Archiving System
(IAS) for digital storage of large quantities
of imaging data. It has the capability of
storing 2xl01 0
bits of data on a single one
hour video cassette with an error rate of
only 1 in 107
, and is ideal for storage of
large quantities of data as received direct
from satellities. A n important feature of
the IAS is that it can be easily used with
major computer systems. One of the most
important software developments has been
the modification of the Vicar systems in
conjunction with the Jet Propulsion
laboratory in the United States. The
Centre also supports an easy to use 'user-
friendly' command language which is being
devloped in conjunction with Nasa
establishments in the United States.
The Centre is providing a focal point for
Remote Sensing activities at Imperial
College, and has allowed the subject to
develop in a way that would have been
difficult without central co-ordination.
Research groups who find that Remote
Sensing could help them now have
extensive facilities available. As well as
showing how inter-departmental work can
be carried out sucesssfully the Centre
shows that academic institutions can work
together and also work with industry and
government institutions. This area of
science is particularly costly and contracts
with industry may help to finance the
running of the Centre.
8 Friday 24 May 1985

