ISSUE 1702
FELIX
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Pick and Choose
While all-you-can-eat buffets always sound like a great idea, our bad choices can quickly turn them into much-
more-than-you-can-eat sources of stomach aches and guilt. How do we choose between a juicy burger and
mouth-watering lasagne? How do we figure out how much of this tempting apple pie is enough?
SCIENCE
Paula Rowińska
Science Writer
N
euroscientists
from Johns
H o p k i n s
U n i v e r s i t y
studied how our brains
help us make spontaneous
food choices at buffets, in
restaurants or in front of
our own fridge. The re-
search on rats helped them
identify a brain region
that could be responsible
for our food decisions,
according to the paper in
Nature Communications.
Researchers offered the
rats two types of sugary
drinks: one sweetened
with sucrose and one with
maltodextrin. Rodents got
much more excited when
given the first option:
they licked it faster.
People react similarly to
delicious food, “the dish
that’s the favourite will
likely be eaten faster and
with bigger bites”, says
David Ottenheimer, the
lead author of the paper.
For a few days the team
from Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity gave the rats one
of the two sweet drinks.
Researchers monitored
their brain activity to
understand which neurons
get activated when rats
realised which treat they
received. They registered
increased activity in the
ventral pallidum, one of
the pleasure centres of the
brain, whenever rodents
got excited about sucrose
and disappointed about
maltodextrin.
In the second part
of the study the rats
were offered either the
previously less-desirable
maltodextrin drink or just
plain water. This time
the activity in the ventral
pallidum when animals
received the sweetened
drink resembled their
reaction to sucrose drink
in the first part of the study.
“Food choices
are likely to
depend on
the context:
rats picked the
best option
available.”
The researchers conclud-
ed that food choices are
likely to depend on the
context: rats picked the
best option available.
Neuroscientists still do
not fully understand the
purpose of such ventral
pallidum’s activity. Ac-
cording to one hypothesis,
it is supposed to reinforce
our current food choices.
Just remember: when you eat too many sweets this Halloween, it’s all the ventral pallidum’s fault... // Wikimedia
“They
registered
increased
activity in
the ventral
palladium...
whenever
rodents got
excited.”
be exciting in one scenario
and disappointing in
another, ventral pallidum
could be the key.”
This study could be
the first step to new
treatments encouraging
healthy eating. For now, if
you eat a bit too much at
the upcoming Halloween
party, you can blame your
ventral pallidum.
Alternatively, it could
encourage us to pick one
type of food over another
in the future.
“Our data suggest that
further investigation of
ventral pallidum will be
critical for understanding
how we make decisions
about eating,” claims Ot-
tenheimer. “If we want to
figure out why a food can
Hi! We’re Jacqueline and Aoife, the current Editors-in-Chief of I, Science. Never heard of it? Well...
I, Science is an exclusively student run science publication made right here at Imperial. We’re on Radio, TV, Online and In-print. We’ve covered everything from
artificial intelligence to “female viagra” to what exactly death looks like. Needless to say we’re prepared to tackle anything and all things Science.
That’s why we need you!! For our very first issue of this academic year we’ve chosen to focus our theme on that planet we all know and love: Earth.
We are looking for a whole bunch of pitches (200 words max) on any stories you’d like to write for us within the theme for our online and news features. The more
meta the beta.
If this isn’t the issue for you, there are plenty opportunities available throughout the year to get involved with each of our platforms. Anything you’d like to be
involved in? Drop us an email at iscience@imperial.ac.uk
Hi! We’re Jacqueline and Aoife, the current Editors-in-Chief of I, Science. Never heard of it? Well...
I, Science is an exclusively student run science publication made right here at Imperial. We’re on Radio, TV, Online and In-print. We’ve covered everything from
artificial intelligence to “female viagra” to what exactly death looks like. Needless to say we’re prepared to tackle anything and all things Science.
That’s why we need you!! For our very first issue of this academic year we’ve chosen to focus our theme on that planet we all know and love: Earth.
We are looking for a whole bunch of pitches (200 words max) on any stories you’d like to write for us within the theme for our online and news features. The more
meta the beta.
If this isn’t the issue for you, there are plenty opportunities available throughout the year to get involved with each of our platforms. Anything you’d like to be
involved in? Drop us an email at iscience@imperial.ac.uk
Twitter: @isciencemedia •		 Facebook: I, Science
Web: http://www.isciencemag.co.uk • Insta: @isciencemedia

