Letters
Caterpillar
Cafe
Dear Bill,
I am writing to voice my concern over the
attitude of a certain sabbatical officer towards the
students who work their asses off for FELIX.
After I'd photographed a caterpillar found in a
Snack Bar chilli on Thursday, Nigel Baker started
throwing around accusations of creative
journalism. Then, on Friday afternoon, whilst in
the Union Office, I was accused, in front of
several people, including two C C U Presidents,
of faking the photograph with the sole aim of
slagging off the Snack Bar. I consider this to be
a very serious slur on my integrity as a
photographer. I would like to point out here that
I take photos to report facts and treat FELIX
photography with the same degree of
professionalism as I do any other job, paid or
otherwise. To quote Nigel in his letter in FELIX
(11 Nov) 'I hope that he has the strength of
character to admit that he was wrong and print
an apology' perhaps through this column.
Yours,
Doug King.
PS. In the belief that a picture is worth a
thousand words here is the 'fake' photo for you
to judge for yourselves.
Diplomacy
Dear Bill,
With regard to last week's editorial, perhaps
I should elaborate on the item concerning the
Alternative Prospectus. I feel that you have been
unfair to the Mathematics Department in only
presenting one side of the story and also in
printing a major inaccuracy.
It was certainly hinted by the Maths
Department that their entry in the PA was
penned by me—they said as much in a letter
written to Martyn Peck, the AP Editor. Through
the knowledge of my involvement with FELIX
and the credit on the front cover, this was an
obvious assumption to make—it just so happened
to be wrong.
The letter to Martyn Peck was discussed at the
following Publications Board meeting. This
resulted in a letter from Sydney Harbour-Bridge,
Union President and Chris Martin, Pub Board
Chairman to the department pointing out their
error.
A few days later, a third letter appeared. This
was from Dr Berkshire, Director of
Undergraduate Studies, to myself, clearing me
of writing the article and apologising for any
trouble caused. As far as I was concerned, this
was the end of the matter.
The inaccuracy in the editorial is in the
penultimate paragraph. It is certainly not the case
that the department refused to let me re-sit some
of my exams. They have agreed to let me repeat
all of them. Any indication given otherwise is
false and should be rectified.
Yours faithfully,
Paul Shanley, Sherfield Building.
Lethal Letter
Dear William,
I hope your readers realise that the be-cloaked
creature with the scythe is an imposter. I've
worked hard to get this job, and I'm not going
to be upstaged by some mortal in a second-hand
shroud. Poeple think grim-reaping is an easy job;
it's not—always on call, every second of every
day of every millenium, spending much of your
life in squalor. I've asked for help, but they just
won't listen. I'm chronically over-worked and I
don't think the imposter realises this.
Be seeing you all—sooner or later.
The Grim Reaper.
PS. Bill—Him downstairs says you're overdue
on the payment for your election victory.
Sycophant
Dear Bill (and bods),
Thank you, thank you, thank you for making
FELIX such jolly frolicking fun—I can't tell you
how wonderful life is with this year's edition. The
FELIX staff make me swoon when they appear
from that cosy corner in Beit Quad. It is quite
amazing to think that those wonderful bodies can
produce an equally wonderful newspaper. I can
barely bare to be separated from my weekly
copy—I flick through it in lectures and frolick with
it at night. It looks so tempting (like the Editor).
Please keep writing those raunchy, rivetting
news stories, those softly soporific travel pages,
those cleverly clueless reviews, those subtely
senseless Union pages and last but in no way
least, those awesome and orgasmic opinion
pages. I do so love reading about Islam in the
bath. Unfortunately I have now started taking
showers instead. What a pity.
You are all wonderful. The newspaper is
wonderful. Life is wonderful.
I love you Bill. I love you all.
Yours ecstatically,
A student on cloud .'2 zillion'.
Name withheld for humanitarian reasons.
Naughty
Nigel in
Sex Romp
Shocker
Dear Bill,
Thank you for the apology printed in last
week's FELIX (Issue 817). Unfortunately in the
same editorial you have made another factual
error. Under the heading UGMs you point out,
quite rightly, that it is impossible to have sensible
debates when motions are only received at the
meeting. I am therefore thankful that you have
decided to print motions in the FELIX before the
UGM. This should enable a more thoughtful
debate without people speaking for the sake of
it or saying the first thing that comes into their
head.
Also under the heading, UGMs, in your
editorial last week you go on to explain how the
Union Officers who submitted the 'New Election'
motion used the above situation to prohibit part-
time students from standing. Anyone who was
at the U G M will know that I proposed the motion
and it was seconded by Ian Morris, the ICU Hon
Sec (Events), and so I must point out that again
you were wrong in your deductions. When I
spoke to you, you explained that by wording my
motion such that all candidates must be 'Full
Members' of the Union I was changing the rules,
on who was eligible to stand, without informing
the meeting. However, what you didn't realise
was that the clause stating that candidates had
to be full members of the Union was in the
original by-laws and was not added by me at all.
The fact that the original by-laws were printed
next to the motion is totally irrelevant I suppose!
I trust you will again print an apology.
Nigel D Baker,
ICU President.
Sorry.
Bags
Dear Bill,
Why is it that College Library carrier bags sold
in the library at lOp each but are 12p each in the
bookshop? This may seem a trivial point but is
I believe the tip of the iceberg in terms of the
bookshop's excessive pricing policy. Two further
examples are Ecology by Begon Harper and
Townsend at £18.75 in the College Bookshop but
only £15.75 in Foyles, and A4 copy safe pockets
are 35p each in the College Bookshop yet 4p each
bought in bulk.
Why is it that student outlets in College such
as the Bookshop and the student Snack Bar seem
intent on 'ripping off students' when surely their
duty is to provide a competitively priced service
for students?
Dave Thomas,
Applied Biology 4.
Page 2 FELIX November 18 1988

