Travel
northern areas of Syria and Iraq,
western Iran and a small area of the
USSR. Estimates of their numbers
vary according to which source you
take but sixteen million would not
be far wrong—seven to eight million
of whom live in Turkey. None of
their host countries have any
sympathy for the cause of the
Kurdish nationalism although all
but the USSR have at some time
supported one or other of the
Kurdish groups. Their cause is not
helped by their lack of unity—there
are six main Kurdish nationalist
groups (two each in Iran, Iraq and
Turkey); they speak many different
dialects, all mutually unintelligible
and use three different scripts;
Latin, Arabic and Cyrillic.
Historically the Kurds have always
been nomads and as successive
invaders moved through the area
they simply moved further up the
mountains to more remote areas.
It is tempting to only see one side
of the story and regard them as a
peaceful nomadic race who have
been persecuted by bullying Turks.
During the First World War
however, in Van and the
surrounding regions over one and
a half million Armenians were
slaughtered in cold blood,
predominantly by Kurds. Since 1984
around 600 people have been killed
in skirmishes between the PKK
(Kurdish Workers Party) and the
Turkish armed forces. This,
Turkey's unfriendly neighbours and
a right-wing government, have
conspired to give Turkey the second
largest, army in NATO (after the
USA).
You may have guessed from the
preceding paragraphs that my
companion for tea was a member of
the PKK. Once he could trust me,
he regaled me with his experiences.
He had been in the prison in Diyar
bakir for four and a half years-
Kurdish guerrillas have spent some
time in this infamous gaol. He
claimed to have been on four
hunger strikes (the longest being 60
days) and to have seen five of his
friends die in this way. Another
three were killed by prison guards.
My credibility became a little
stretched when he assured me that
Turkey had 18 million kurds out of
a total of 40 million. When I
attempted to probe more deeply, his
English suddenly became non-
existent. After some time he asked
me if I would like to see a Kurdish
village only 40km away. I
considered the facts for a few
moments. I was an easily
identifiable foreign tourist with no
passport. It would have been illegal
without prior authorisation from the
Wali (governor). The Turkish Army
are reputed to have a 'shoot first,
question later' attitude in the area.
I didn't find the decision very hard.
Instead he invited me to his shop
for 'Kurdish tea' and 'Kurdish
tobacco'. I was very sceptical about
his adjectives as tea only grows on
the Black Sea coast in Turkey. As for
the tobacco I didn't know what to
expect as at one time there was a
considerable drug smuggling trade
through the local mountains from
Iran and Afghanistan. Both tea and
tobacco proved to be the standard
Turkish article although ground to
a fine dust and after an hour or so
of leisurely banter I left clutching a
pair of genuine Kurdish socks.
After a delicious meal and far too
much raki I had little trouble
sleeping. In the morning my
journey back to Van was eased by
travelling with around 20 conscript
soldiers who were obviously very
relieved to be going home on leave.
I picked up my passport in Van and
headed off west.
Agrochemicals
To those graduating in 1989 or 1990
in the Biological or related
sciences
ICI Agrochemicals has a number of vacancies for those with the scientific skills
and the potential to succeed in a world-class commercial environment.
* On ourTechno-Commercial Programme, successful applicants will spend an
initial period in research and development prior to transferring into a commercial
department which will lead to an international business career.
* On our UK Sales Training Programme, successful applicants will start their
business career in UK Agrochemical sales.
' * On our Technical Programme, successful applicants will progress through
one of our technical career paths including, in some cases, career development
through commercial positions.
For further details please contact your University Careers Advisory Sevice.
There will be a presentation for 1989
and 1990 graduates, and any interested
postgraduates, on Thursday 24th
November, 1988 at the Forum Hotel,
97 Cromwell Road, London SW7 at
6.30pm. Refreshments will be available.
•
Applications should be received by
Wednesday 11th January, 1989.
Preliminary interviews will be held at
the Gloucester Hotel, Harrington
Gardens, London SW7 on Wednesday
25th January 1989.
•
Those seeking appointments in 1989
should apply (using the Standard
Application Form) to: Mrs S. Hennelly,
ICI Agrochemicals, Fernhurst,
Haslemere, Surrey GU27 3JE.
November 4 1988

