ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
DoubleRClub@TheOldTrumanBrewery-WelcometoTheDoubleRClub,anevening
of mystery & nightmares inspired by the films of David Lynch; a darkly surreal cocktail
of “Damn fine” Cabaret & Burlesque, Comedy & Live Music, where “Restless nights and
uneasydreamsgowiththeterritory...”.13June
Nobuyoshi Araki @ Michael Hoppen Contemporary - Araki’s highly charged work has
a unique vision that has made it central to the development of Japanese photography.
Many of his graphic, provoking works are on rare display in a gallery only a short walk
awayfromCollege,notonetomiss.Now-8June
GeorgeBellows@RoyalAcademyofArts -Thefirstmajorretrospectiveoftheimportant
American realist painter is in London. Head along to the RA for an enthralling vision of
thechaoticthrivingUSAofthe1920’s. Careermayhavebeenshortbuthistimeoffereda
richsubjectmatterofwar,commerceandeverydaylife.Now-9June
A Design Fiction @ Design Museum - This exhibition at London’s centre for design fea-
ture the work of four individuals using use elements of industrial design, architecture,
politics,scienceandsociologytoprovokedebatearoundthepowerandpotentialofde-
signthroughthedevelopmentoftheirown‘micro-kindoms’.Now-16August
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle is by Lauren Radcliffe, procrastinating
likehell?
FRIDAY 17 MAY
18
Art which tackles melange with sci-
ence has been explored previously in
these pages. However these clashes
still remain few and far between. Sci-
ence as inspiration for intriguing piec-
es, using art as a medium to explore
the signiﬁcance of science or portray
its beauty has great potential and is
not yet as appreciated as it could be.
One artist bringing these themes to
the forefront is Susan Aldworth. She
is known for her art-neuroscience
mash-ups and has even worked with
Imperial neuroscientists involved in
the Parkinson’s Brain Tissue Bank.
Currently on display at the National
Portrait Gallery is The Portrait Anato-
mised, three prints which invite view-
ers to think about the concept of the
self and the brain.
The portraits are of no ordinary
subjects. They are suﬀerers of epi-
lepsy, a condition where excessive
electrical activity in the brain has se-
rious impacts on daily life. It is not
something to be stigmatised, frowned
down upon, or shunned. The exhibi-
tion doesn’t shy away from this aspect;
instead, it displays epilepsy for what
it is. It deﬁnes the subjects and their
personality. We are invited to consider
this and to question in what way our
brain deﬁnes us.
Elisabeth is a young mother. She is
also a portrait inspired by 17th cen-
tury Evelyn tables on which dissected
whole-body blood vessels are glued.
Using images from body scans, Elisa-
beth’s stark white skeleton is laid bare
on a black background.
Her portrait isn’t anatomised, but
rather her anatomy is portrait-ised.
Wide eyes gaze into the world, this
world reﬂects back to the viewer and
we stare back.
Elisabeth’s face forms her womb,
representing the struggle she faced
when considering how to become
pregnant whilst dealing with her epi-
lepsy and deciding whether or not to
come oﬀ the medication, which could
harm her unborn child.
If her head is a metaphor for her
preoccupations, are our brains a
metaphor for our minds? In neurosci-
ence, they are one and the same, but
on a human level this isn’t the simplest
thing to accept.
Adjacent to Elisabeth sits Max. The
ﬁrst thing that strikes the viewer is a
photo of his face, eyes closed it seems
to speak of relief, pain, contemplation,
all or neither of those things. We are
prompted to decide, white on black
and particularly striking.
Aldworth wanted us to feel as
though we are diving into space – the
matter that makes up the subjects and
ourselves.
This is particularly thought-provok-
ing when viewers follow the swirling
white patterns, perhaps dendrites
which allow brain cells to communi-
cate along great distances. They cre-
ate a kind of confusion which is ex-
acerbated by the irregular anatomy of
his body parts. It reminds us of how
the mind and body aﬀect each other,
and how a disease of the former is the
same as a disease of the latter.
The swirls then link the canvas to
the exterior world; I’d really like to
believe they are the dendrites which
allow our brain cells to connect with
what is external to us.
“I always like my work to look like
it has just landed on the page and
is about to move oﬀ, so electricity
[used by brain cells to communicate]
provided me with a wonderful sub-
ject matter because it is transitory.
It moves with the moment,” explains
Aldworth.
The third portrait is of Fiona. Just
like the other two, her huge eyes bear
down, but unlike the others, her heart
sits in between them. Ancient idioms
about listening to hearts vs. heads
come to mind.
Where her hands should be, Fiona’s
ears form a creepy eye-to-ear piercing
gaze, locked with the viewer’s. It is as
though we are trying to see what she
hears by looking at her portrait, and
in this way it seems as though her epi-
lepsy aﬀects how she perceives herself
alongside how we perceive her.
All portraits also feature each sub-
ject’s electroencephalogram (EEG)
readings. These are basically read-
ings of brainwaves, and are the way
in which epilepsy is detected and di-
agnosed. When a seizure occurs the
electrical activity of a huge number
of brain cells synchronise when they
should not and activity becomes large
enough to be detected by the EEG.
Though brainwaves carry informa-
tion, thoughts cannot be decoded
from them. In this way, the beautiful
patterns, displayed in the heart of the
picture, hold so much personal infor-
mation yet tell us nothing about who
the subjects really are.
“The portraits seem to reference the
self, but they don’t really, and I think
in my work I’m playing with that and
trying to give you a look inside the
subjects but in the end it is still just an
anatomical experience. And their se-
crets are still really contained within
themselves.”
La neuro vague
Lily Le Writer
Read online at felixonline.co.uk

