MUSIC
Music Editors: Riaz Agahi,
Mark England, Ross Gray,
Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 17 MAY
20
recently got in touch with
Cian Walker and Patrick
Fennelly of Irish band Den-
tistry. Their debut last year
released on Forwind Records
made quite an impression on me and
I got a chance to discuss their ap-
proach to making music.
Riaz Agahi: I read somewhere that
Dentistry started as a correspond-
ence project, so I was wondering
how that all came about and how
you feel it has aﬀected your work?
Cian: Yeah, we (myself, Patrick and
Jason) had all known each other for
a couple of years, we were all work-
ing together in a record store and had
long talked about doing something
together, getting a practice room and
jamming but we never got around
Dentistry:makeanappointmentsoon
Riaz Agahi speaks to dark, ambient up-and-comers Dentistry
to doing it. We then realised that it
suited everyone to work on ideas at
home, email sketches to one another,
which we then ﬂeshed out a little
more before going into the studio.
Patrick: Yeah we’re not very ‘typical’
as far as bands go. We never could
meet up or ‘practice’. In fact, I think
we’ve only actually ‘practiced’ twice
and one of those times was recording
the album. But working the way we
do suits us and allows us to produce
a very large volume of work.
RA: What sort of impact does this
have on the idea of performing
live? Was Dentistry ever intended
as a project to be performed live?
Patrick: We’ve never done a live set.
With so much being improvised it’s
I
tough to do. I know we’re both very
particular too and wouldn’t want to
do something live unless we were
100% happy with it. Personally I ﬁnd
laptop sets boring and wouldn’t want
to just stand around on stage. We use
live instruments too so if we were to
play live I’d like to do something with
them but that takes a lot of work to
get right. I’ve always been interested
in installations and would like to go
down that road. But as I said, we’d
both have to be behind it. Saying that
we are meant to be touring with our
label next summer.
Cian: I have never enjoyed live per-
formance in the past. It’s not some-
thing I’ve done a huge amount of,
but enough to know that it makes me
feel pretty uncomfortable. I’ve always
much preferred listening to music at
home than live, particularly quiet or
slow music, that’s certainly the way I
had hoped Vardogr would be expe-
rienced. That’s not to say I wouldn’t
like to perform live in the future, I
would, very much, it would just be a
question of trying to ﬁgure out how
best to present material like this in a
way that would be interesting.
RA: How do you make the sounds
and does each person have a dis-
tinct role?
Patrick: Well we both have diﬀerent
approaches to making music. For the
most part I use Ableton live but do
use actual synths from time to time.
The studio we recorded the album
in, third eye, in Dublin, has amazing
banks of synths so we used them on
Vardogr. At home when I’m mak-
ing music it usually depends on my
mood. Usually though I have an idea
and will roll with it. Recently I was
using a lot of ﬁeld recordings and
nature sounds; But nothing is ever
exclusive and no one has a ﬁxed role.
Cian: I use Ableton Live for arrang-
ing, as well as guitar, eﬀects pedals,
ﬁeld recordings, a cheapo Casio key-
board that I’ve had for a really long
time, and is totally shit but I love it, a
couple of tasty synths that have made
sure I haven’t been able to aﬀord a
holiday for a couple of years, an ac-
cordion, an old Hohner organ, any-
thing I can get my hands on...
RA: I read online that Ambarchi
was an inﬂuence, who else inﬂu-
enced your sound?
Cian: If I had to narrow it down, and
I really hate to do so, I’d say Alog
and Phonophani are big inﬂuences,
they seem to apply an attitude that I
really agree with… whatever’s avail-
able to them can be used in a song
if it sounds good, and that’s an atti-
tude that I wholeheartedly support.
In fact, as a label, Rune Grammofon
has been hugely inﬂuential … stuﬀ
like Deathprod, Spunk, Archetti/
Wiget, Supersilent, have never been
too far from my CD player over the
past few years .
Patrick: We both worked in record
stores for over 20 years combined,
when you do that its hard not to be
exposed to something good in literal-
ly every genre (although blues proves
elusive for us both), there are pop
songs I like right down to noise…
In terms of ‘our’ ‘genre’ of music,
I suppose Stars of the Lid was the
ﬁrst group I heard that was like a
penny dropping. I’ve always loved
drone since I was a kid (the sound
of a fan humming in a room, the din
of a busy street, an orchestra tuning
up) but I never knew there was music
that utilised it until I heard Stars of
the Lid. It was actually then through
the guidance of Vinny Dermody (The
Jimmy Cake), who I worked with at
the time that got me into the likes of
Morton Feldman and some other,
more obscure contemporary classi-
cal composers like La Monte Young.
Sonic Youth were deﬁnitely inﬂuen-
tial too in the way they used noise as
an instrument and not just an exten-
sion of a sound…
RA: Is there much of an experi-
mental scene in Ireland as a whole?
Patrick: I think that, against the
odds, there is little to no scene in
Ireland. We have such a rich his-
tory of art in Ireland, from the Yeats
brothers to Beckett to le Brocquy,
it’s hard to see why Ireland doesn’t
have more culturally diverse mu-
sic scenes, and never really has for
that matter. I think it comes down
to how ingrained traditional Irish
music is culturally. Unlike a lot of
other countries, traditional music is
soaked into the cultural framework
of the island ... and as such I think it
shapes the way a lot of Irish people
view music as they get older. I hon-
estly think Dublin produces more
good bands per capita, however the
last 4-5 years has seen an inﬂux of
nonsensical, ‘image over substance’,
rich music. I honestly think half the
‘artists’ that picked up a synth in the
last few years would probably be in a
Cranberries type band had they been
born a decade earlier. Saying that,
there are some phenomenal bands
that we produce in this country, but
sadly they’ll rarely get the credit.
AMS album of the week
The National are a band who have
transcended modern music trends.
They first came to prominence with
the glut of “post-punk revival” indie
bands in the mid-2000s. That scene
died years ago, but The National
rose from the ashes, and have con-
tinued to rise and rise. Their last al-
bum, High Violet, saw them getting
top billing at some of the biggest fes-
tivals in the world and it’s a position
they richly desevred. Whilst their
peers desperately tried to cling to past glories by claiming their new album
was “just like the first one” (Interpol) or radically changed their style all the
time hoping something would stick (Bloc Party) or just gave up completely
(Franz Ferdinand), The National have calmly gone about writing great mu-
sic that comes naturally. The new record, Trouble Will Find Me, is a perfect
extension of that. It’s truly gorgeous, and should cement the National’s place
at the top of modern indie rock.
This is the sound of a band working in perfect harmony. Every member is
having an absolute stormer. Each song seems like a unified vision with every
instrument having its part to play. It meshes together beautifully. For exam-
ple, the adorable guitar part repeated through ‘I Need My Girl’ is enough
to cement the track as fantastic even without the beautiful lyrics and Matt’s
perfect baritone, and after that you’ve still got a rhythm section doing every-
thing right. It’s rare for me to use the repeat one function on my iTunes, but
this song had that for a good hour or two the other night. I suppose it’s also
rare for me to listen to one album over and over again, but you know, it’s rare
for anything to be this good. This is the most fully formed a National album
has ever been, and that’s coming from a huge National fan (as you may have
worked out…). I can see why some people might not like this, it’s not the most
diverse record and if you don’t dig the sound you might be asking them to
switch it up. The thing is, most of my favourite albums aren’t very diverse, the
very best records don’t need to be. When you’ve absolutely nailed a sound, as
the National have here, 55 minutes of it doesn’t feel samey, it feels immersive,
and this album is one I could (and will) keep myself fully immersed in for a
good while yet.
The National –TroubleWillFindMe
Stuart Masson
Read this and
more from
the comfort
of your bed.
How? Go to
felixonline.
co.uk

