MUSIC
Music Editors: Riaz Agahi,
Mark England, Ross Gray,
Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
21
FRIDAY 17 MAY
Chvrches@VillageUnderground
The Boiler Room sessions are always
a treat. When Make Session 008 de-
scended on Hoxton I was sure to get
in the queue to get a space. Red Stripe
had teamed up with long term friends
T-Shirt Party. You have to love a brand
whose vision is “REAL G’s WEAR
WHITE T’s”
. Inside an art gallery next
to Hoxton Overground, the walls were
decked out with hundreds of diﬀerent
simple, yet creative t-shirts, making the
night look more like someone’s Tumblr
feedthanaclub.PorticoQuartet,Stub-
born Heart, Factory Floor, Anushka,
Eaux and CKTRL had teamed up for a
night of artful beats and groove.
This was my ﬁrst Boiler Room session
so I was unsure of what to expect. With
Portico Quartet requiring a large area to
set up the crowd were conﬁned to a ring
around the gallery which I found rather
strange. It made the atmosphere feel
rather muted although you got so close
to the acts that you couldn’t help feel the
rhythms.
Portico Quartet were the main draw
Fresh from playing the Alexandra
Palace with Everything Everything
and Two Door Cinema Club the trio
Chvrches came to the Village Under-
ground with the weight of expecta-
tion lying squarely on their shoulders.
They recently won best new non-US
band at SXSW and made it into the
top 5 of the BBC’s sound of 2013. Lit-
tle surprise then that the gig sold out
in minutes and the queues to get in
started an hour before doors opened
Through the delicate vocals of Lau-
ren Mayberry and pulsing synths of
Martin Doherty and Iain Cook, Ch-
vrches have found a winning formula.
Critics have drawn comparisons be-
tween them and the Canadian duo
Purity Ring, but live the ominous bass
sounds more like an epic blend with
their fellow Glaswegians Mogwai.
They opened with their debut re-
lease ‘Lies’, a hypnotic electropop tune
which set the mood for the rest of the
gig. With trippy laser beams and lots
of ﬂashy lights they slowly built up
to the climax of the evening, perfor-
mances of their most commercially
successful tracks ‘Mother we Share’
and ‘Recover’. On the way though Ch-
vrches showed they aren’t just a one
trick pony, with Doherty taking the
mic to perform the intimate ‘Now is
not the Time’. There can be no doubt-
ing the true star of the evening, the elf-
ine Lauren Mayberry. Her immaculate
delivery and presence really captured
the hearts of the audience, as did her
playful banter on themes as diverse as
Game of Thrones (their cover of the
theme went viral on YouTube), kittens
with laser pointers and boy bands in
the audience. Add to that her ability
as an intriguing lyricist and Chvrches
have found a new indie heart-throb.
To round oﬀ the evening Mayberry
performed (as promised) a karaoke
version of Little Kim’s ‘Lady Marma-
lade’ rap followed by a stunning cover
of Prince’s ‘I would die 4 U’, a song
which could have been written for
this band. So did Chvrches live up to
the hype? Although they aren’t quite
the ﬁnished article yet a fantastic gig
showcased their massive potential and
left the audience hungry for more.
Thomas Leeman Writer
BoilerRoomMakeSession008
Mark Engand Music Editor
of the night for me although Stubborn
Heart pleasantly surprised me. Their
synth pop washed over me and it had
a real futuristic edge, showing their real
potential. A real let down, however, was
the Factory Floor DJ set. I have been to
a few of their live shows and the deaf-
ening, thunderous racket which they
concoct is so alive and so vital that I
was expecting great things. The DJ set
however, felt too contrived, and lacked
urgency. It didn’t help that most of the
crowdintheroomweretalkingamongst
themselves, or was that because of the
set? Chicken and egg I suppose. CKTRL
provided some swagger to the evening.
A singer joined for the beginning of the
set and her honey tones mixed well with
the slow, sparse beats.
Portico Quartet smashed the evening
apart with their rendition of ‘Window
Seat’ really hitting the spot. They round-
ed oﬀ the night with ﬂair their niche mix
of ambient electro jazz. They are fresh,
forward thinking and absorbing.
For more information on boiler room
sets visit www.boilerroom.tv/live
I went along to the ﬁnal of the Uni
Music League last week having heard
only one song by James and the Rab-
bit Hole. I didn’t know what to ex-
pect and was pleasantly surprised.
The band only formed early this year
(following an application to the com-
petition) and since then their main
focus has been writing enough songs
to play in the rounds of the competi-
tion as they sailed through them one
after another. The Uni Music League is
the biggest student music competition
with a big prize (an EP recording deal
with Metropolis Studios, a slot at Wil-
derness Festival, places as a support
act at KOKO, a PR campaign and pro
photo shoots) and so the band worked
hard. By the ﬁnal they had six of their
own songs (having written the most
recent song two days beforehand) and
had accumulated a very appreciative
crowd. They started the set with a cov-
er of Daft Punk ‘Get Lucky’, a current
sure-ﬁre hit. They really did the song
justice and sent the crowd wild from
just a few notes in. It was easy to un-
derstand why the crowd was so excited
about the band.
The lead singer, James Burrows, is
an incredibly capable vocalist with a
very enjoyable twang to his voice that
reminded me a little of Jason Mraz.
During the set, he was often accompa-
nied by harmonies from guitarist Tim
Plummer. Each musician in James and
the Rabbit Hole has obvious talent and
this was showcased in brilliant solos
from each of them over several of the
songs. The drummer, Dan Day, switch-
DowntheRabbit-hole
Julia Spindel Writer es between a huge variety of drum
rhythms with ridiculous ease and the
keys player, Francis Clegg, treated the
crowd to some brilliant jazz-style solos
on the top half of the keyboard, leav-
ing them wanting much more. James
and the Rabbit Hole’s music marries
several genres from rock to soul and
yet is far from over-complicated, tak-
ing us back to classic old-school funk
that many bands shy away from these
days, but is simply enjoyable as ever.
The varying textures within the songs
were skilled, as were the transitions
between the songs. Several songs were
stopped dead perfectly, with quick
movement into the next song, much
to the listeners’ delight. Others were
interlaced with amusing stage chat.
Throughout the set the band were
constantly interacting with each other
to keep in perfect sync and at the right
levels, but also just through enjoy-
ment of playing the music. And the
enjoyment was infectious. At several
points James took to jumping across
the stage with his colourful guitar and
grey desert boots, shaking his black
hair, showing the level of energy that
this kind of music is all about. At one
point the drummer acquired a straw
hat and was drumming on his feet.
I’m not sure what the hat was for but
it contributed to a very inclusive and
amusing set from the band.
Unfortunately James and the Rabbit
Hole didn’t win the Uni Music League
competition, but this is far from the
last we’ll be hearing of the band. They
already have a dedicated following and
are planning more gigs and record-
ings. I can’t wait for the next perfor-
mance.
Skye Portman Photography

