DRUGS SURVEY FEATURES SCIENCE
Results are in Organ donation Hipster mice
That’s right, the results are in.
There are some surprises, and
some things that you could
probably have guessed. Thanks
to everyone that filled it in!
Why be an organ donor? There
are so many reasons. Some may
have religious reasons for not
donating, but, if you don’t, think
about it for just a minute.
Some people have been doing
interesting work on individual-
ity. The idea that your person-
ality could be just a bunch of
neurons makes my head hurt.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>> 8 >>10 >>15
FRIDAY 17 MAY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Riaz Agahi, Mark England, Ross
Gray, Simon Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Matt Colvin Travel
Editor Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Web
Uploading James Simpson Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Behaving
like animals
his week brings some
news about the allega-
tions of animal cruelty
levelled against Imperial.
They’re rushing to the res-
cue with a three month long investiga-
tion. In other words “let’s just kick this
can into the distance, and then write a
report that will be long and boring and
hopefully nobody will read”. Of course
you couldn’t have a two week investi-
gation and find everything there is to
know, but it definitely feels like the PR
machine is in overdrive here. Sorry to
be cynical. If they were serious, they
could just walk up to the researchers
now and give all involved in animal
testing a pop quiz. If they don’t know
details they should, well, then there is
cause for concern.
They will interview people, who will
probably be like Rebekah Brooks at
Leveson and just say that they re-
member no specific details of any
specific events. In the groups that
carry out this research it’s likely that
it would be obvious who told on you
if you get found out to have behaved
inappropriately (sorry to go all school
playground on you). Therefore it is
likely that those bystanders will not
really want to then have to spend an-
other however many years in an office
with someone they just got in to trou-
ble. It sounds weird to put it like that,
but I fear that may happen with this
investigation.
At the heart of this is really just what
happens to many people in many jobs:
you get callous and blasé about what
you are doing and how it affects peo-
ple and the environment around you.
People in positions of responsibil-
ity cannot let such things happen to
them, especially when you are caring
for others and animals. A good exam-
ple is the LIBOR fixing. People got
comfortable and probably didn’t even
think of the consequences. That’s ob-
viously horrible, but it’s also human.
It’s amazing how people can behave
when they are in a group. People will
do things that they probably wouldn’t
if they had time to think about it.
I think what this really exposes is,
in fact, that scientists are just hu-
man and are not infinitely amazing at
their jobs. Those companies claiming
that their the height of “profession-
alism and excellence”. Guess what.
They’re going to have people that
screw things up all the time. Imperial
and everyone else likes to think of a
scientist as infallible. If you’re a first
year, then a PhD student seems like
some kind of fountain of knowledge.
The weird thing is that they are just
like you. They are just like everyone.
Just the same way as an accountant
may not know something about an
area of accountancy, a PhD student
may not know the proper way to do
a reflux if they study computational
chemistry (can you tell I did chemis-
try?). And a PhD may not even know
everything about their project as well.
Think about it like a doctor. Does your
medic friend know their medicine
back to front? Why would they magi-
cally know everything there is to know
just because there is a “Dr” in front of
their name? The point I’m struggling
to make is simple: people are not per-
fect, people do not even know their
own jobs perfectly, this is fine if you
are not responsible for lives; however,
if you are in a position of responsibil-
ity, you have to make sure that you at
least know the relevant bits of your
job. If you don’t, leave it to someone
else who does.
Imperial snooping on you
This is pretty hilarious. The idea of
people in College reading memes is
odd. I just have a mental picture of
Sir Keith O’Nions (President & Rec-
tor) just sitting there tempted to post
something about how he just Rec-
tored the crap out of an alumni tour.
MARQUEE WATCH PART 3
That’s right folks, there are no towering
structures on Queen’s Lawn anymore!
T
Artist’s representation of Queen’s Lawn, except it’s likely to be raining.

