FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
22 FRIDAY 17 MAY
Lucy Wiles Film Editor
You know how, more often than not,
the trailer for a ﬁlm shows all the ﬁlm’s
best bits and everyone is let down by
the ﬁlm? This is so not the case here.
The Great Gatsby is everything the
trailer promises, and more. It is bold,
brash, glamorous and over-the-top in
the trademark Baz Luhrmann way.
Luhrmann’s collaboration with Jay-
Z for the soundtrack and visuals were
criticised no end, but has turned out to
be a great move – in fact, they are the
best aspects of the ﬁlm. The whole ex-
perience, despite not having the origi-
nal brilliance of Luhrmann’s Romeo +
Juliet, is mesmerising: the narration of
the ﬁlm is done via music videos, which
is utterly cool. The iconic images from
the book, such as the green light at the
end of the dock, East Egg vs. West Egg
and the haunting eyes of T.J. Eckleburg
are eerily similar to how one would im-
agine them having read the story. All
that said, the experience in 3D is a lit-
tle bit dizzy-making, with its ﬂashing
lights and fast-panning footage.
Luhrmann’s old favourite Leonardo
DiCaprio takes the title role, and does a
The Great Gatsby
Director: Baz Luhrmann
Screenwriters: Baz Luhrmann, Craig
Pearce, F. Scott Fitzgerald
Starring: Leonardo DiCaprio,
Tobey Maguire, Carey Mulligan, Joel
Edgerton
The not-bad-you-should-probably-see-it Gatsby
fairly good job – although not perhaps
up to the standards of his recent por-
trayal of evil Calvin Candie in Django
Unchained. Unfortunately for DiCap-
rio, it’s a tough task for anyone to live
up to the complex and diﬃcult tycoon
that Fitzgerald created. Fortunately
for DiCaprio, however, Luhrmann
gives Gatsby what might possibly be
the most ﬂashy and ﬂamboyant intro-
duction ever, which sets the scene so
beautifully for DiCaprio’s slightly ego-
tistical type of acting. Although Rob-
ert Redford’s original Gatsby might
have been slightly stronger, DiCaprio’s
Gatsby has a much better setting. His
arrogant, ostentatious, slightly aggres-
sive Gatsby is, underneath, more nerv-
ous and insecure than expected, which
gives a real depth to the character and
shows oﬀ DiCaprio’s skills. His excite-
ment and stress around Daisy is very
obvious, and it’s incredibly obvious
when he’s lying – almost the opposite
of Redford’s coolness and indiﬀerence.
Daisy Buchanan herself, played by
the wonderful and beautiful Carey
Mulligan (who suits 1920’s style like no
other), is made into a far more heart-
rending character than the Daisy in the
novel by Luhrmann. Despite almost
constant narration (by Tobey Magu-
ire’s character, Nick – big mistake:
Maguire’s voice is hugely irritating
after a while), a favourite line – “Her
voice was full of money” – is left out.
Mind you, it would have been inap-
propriate in this adaptation. Here her
voice is only full of sadness and disil-
lusionment. Although it’s reassuring to
see the human side of Daisy, it is also a
shame to see her shallow, feckless side
toned down here.
For the full eﬀect, I’d recommend
seeing this one in the cinema. The
sound and the sparkles alone deserve
the big screen experience. Completely
ridiculous, totally too much, wonder-
fully garish – this certainly isn’t one to
miss.
Senior Star Wars
Lucy Wiles Film Editor
It’s bad enough that there’s going to
be another Star Wars ﬁlm. It’s even
worse that it’s going to be made by
Disney. Worse still are the hints that
some of the original cast will be re-
turning to reprise their roles.
Rumours are ﬂying around Hol-
lywood that Carrie Fisher, Mark
Hamill and Harrison Ford will be
stepping back into their (pretty old)
shoes as Princess Leia, Luke Sky-
walker and Han Solo respectively.
This is all very nice and nostalgic but
the average ago of the trio is now 62,
and thoughts of them ﬁghting any-
thing are a little far-fetched.
Having said that, none of the three
roles have been conﬁrmed by produc-
ers. However, Hamill has revealed
that he has had a number of meetings
with both the ﬁlm’s creative consult-
ant George Lucas and it’s executive
producer Kathleen Kennedy. In a re-
cent interview, Hamill didn’t go quite
so far as to conﬁrm his involvement
in the movie, but did drop several
rather heavy hints that Carrie Fisher,
at least, is on board.
“Part of me is cautious,” Hamill
confesses, “Saying ‘let everyone keep
their nice memories if they have nice
memories and don’t try to go back
and do it again.’ But the other side of
me, the adventurous side, thinks, ‘if
everyone’s in, how could I miss this?’”
Hamill also spoke about his con-
cern that the new ﬁlm will rely too
heavily on CGI, which he hopes will
not be the case.
“There’s nothing wrong with CGI,”
he explains, “But I think you have to
have a balance because the camera
perceives the width and the depth
and the weight of a miniature or a
model.”
It seems, however, that Hamill is
reassured that the ﬁlm will be a suc-
cess by the presence of Michael Arndt
(award-winning writer of Little Miss
Sunshine) as the movie’s scriptwriter.
“It always starts with the script,”
enthuses Hamill, “and that’s why I’m
so encouraged by Michael Arndt’s in-
volvement because I respect his writ-
ing so much. He’s a big fan of these
movies, so hopefully we can make
something that doesn’t make every-
one want to ﬁnd us, cut oﬀ our heads
and throw it right in our faces.”
Star Wars: Episode VII is expected
to arrive in UK cinemas in 2015.
Top 15 Films in UK Cinemas
1. Iron Man 3 (12A)
2. 21 and Over (15)
3. Olympus Has Fallen (15)
4. All Stars (U)
5. Oblivion (12A)
6. The Croods (U)
7. I’m So Excited (15)
8. Dead Man Down (15)
9. The Place Beyond the Pines (15)
10. Evil Dead (18)
11. Shootout at Wadala (18)
12. Love is All You Need (15)
13. The Look of Love (18)
14. Chimpanzee (U)
15. Finding Nemo 3D (U)

