FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
FRIDAY 17 MAY
Teen romance is dead
John Park Film Editor
Beautiful Creatures
Director: Richard LaGravenese
Screenwriters: Richard
LaGravenese, Kami Gracia (novel),
Margaret Stohl (novel)
Starring: Alice Englert, Alden
Ehrenreich, Emma Thompson, Jeremy
Irons, Viola Davis, Emmy Rossum
The Host
Director: Andrew Niccol
Screenwriters: Andrew Niccol,
Stephenie Meyer (novel)
Starring: Saoirse Ronan, Max Irons,
Jake Abel, Diane Kruger, William
Hurt, Frances Fisher
John Park Film Editor
Here come the witches Here come the aliens
The Reluctant Fundamentalist
The Reluctant
Fundamentliast
Director: Mira Nair
Screenwriters: Ami Boghani, Mohsin
Hamid, William Wheeler
Starring: Riz Ahmed, Liev Schreiber,
Kate Hudson, Kiefer Sutherland
A young Southern boy (Ehrenreich) falls
in love with a witch (sorry, Castor – Jane
Campion’s daughter Englert) who needs
to choose whether she wants her grow-
ing powers to be used for good or evil.
Turns out these two are destined to
love each other – they’ve been dreaming
about it for some time now and no mat-
ter what anyone has to say, they’re both
in this for the long run.
It’s dull, sappy, and despite the good
chemistry between the leads, their end-
less discussions on love and sacriﬁce
take their toll.
When the more interesting grown-
ups enter the picture, we seem to be go-
ing somewhere: especially outstanding
is Emma Thompson, with a juicy over-
the-top meaty evil role she chews up to a
ﬁercely good standard.
But with a climax as tame as one of-
fered here, the ﬁlm has the audacity to
sqeeuze in a poor, misjudged set-up for
sequels; sequels that will never come,
because not many people bothered
watching even this on the big screen.
Any piece of work with Stephenie
Meyer’s name stamped on it is marked
for that inevitable critical shredding –
and the similar has happened here for
her laughably absurd and inexplicably
dull new alien ﬁction, that basically
retreads the themes of her shockingly
popular Twilight franchise.
We have a “good-looking” love tri-
angle plus that vomit-inducing star-
crossed lovers subplot that attempts to
inject this tiresomely long 2-hour run-
ning time with actual content.
Earth is invaded by aliens who use
our bodies as “hosts” and wish to co-
habit amongst the human race whilst
robbing us of free will.
Melanie (Ronan) is invaded after a
hot pursuit, although her new alien
soul is having a tough time taking over
the host’s body, as Melanie’s conscious-
ness is too powerful.
After two hours of absurd voiceover
bickering between her and Wanda (the
alien), plus the two brooding human
males who fall for Melanie and Wanda
(one for each), you’ll realise this is the
most boring alien invasion ﬁlm ever.
Katy Bettany Film Editor pfffff
Adapted from the novel of the same
name, this Mira Nair ﬁlm which
opened at the Venice Film Festival last
yeartellsthestoryofChangez(Ahmed),
an American educated Pakistani,
whose political and religious loyalty
we are continuously asked to question.
The ﬁlm takes place in two time-
space locations – in Pakistan present
day, we have Changez the suspected
fundamentalist-come-academic, who
is embroiled in a negotiation with
journalist Bobby (Schreiber) over
the whereabouts of an abducted pro-
fessor. Changez recounts his early
adulthood to the journalist: most
of the ﬁlm consists of ﬂashbacks.
Changez is a child of capitalism –
he is educated in an Ivy League uni-
versity and quickly lands a prestigious
job on Wall Street. He’s living the
high life – until the events of 9/11. Al-
most overnight, Changez, a Muslim,
is met with suspicion and hate. He is
strip-searched at the airport whilst
his colleagues are let through cus-
toms with ease; erroneously arrested
and stared at in the street. He soon
quits his job to become an academic.
The ﬁlm plots Changez’s switch
of allegiance from capitalism to mili-
tancy really well – we see his charac-
ter morph imperceptibly during the
ﬂashback scenes into the character
we see in the present day. The sugges-
tion that both capitalism and mili-
tancy are a type of fundamentalism
is a little heavy handed – I don’t think
the ﬁlm had quite enough scope in
order to deal with such complicated
issues coherently. I think the moral
aspect to the ﬁlm (we shouldn’t judge
a book by its cover) was also a little la-
boured and simplistic – and possibly
a bit patronising to a modern audi-
ence. That said the ﬁlm is extremely
compelling, and has some fantastic
performances. The cafe scenes with
the journalist and Changez in the
present are intelligent and ramp up
the tension, despite the lack of action.
The love story that develops be-
tween Changez and Erica (Hud-
son) is adorable, and helps to break
up the wordy action-less scenes we
see in the present day Pakistan se-
quences. Ahmed is hugely convinc-
ing throughout the ﬁlm, and his
delivery is sensitive and subtle, and
provokes a lot of questions about the
nature of the immigrant identity.
Hudson is endearing but less con-
vincing – her character seems more
of a plot device than anything else.
At the end, we are left uncertain of
Changez’s involvement in ‘fundamen-
talism’ and how reluctant he really is.
This is probably a good thing – any-
thing more concrete would have been
trite and unrealistic. Plus it isn’t im-
portant – the concluding scenes of the
ﬁlm are stunning, and will stay with
you long after you ﬁnish watching.

