ICUWRFC saw the end of an incred-
ible season before Easter, being pro-
moted to the BUCS South Eastern
1A division and winning the LUSL
league with an impressive win against
UCL placed 2 BUCS leagues above IC.
Not only this, but Imperial were also
crowned BUCS South-Eastern confer-
ence cup champions for the second
year in a row after another tense bout
against old rivals King’s College Med-
ics. Given all of these successes, the
team would have been forgiven for
taking time out this term to rest and
recuperate. However, it wasn’t long
before the girls were back on the rugby
pitch, this time trying out their skills
in 7s and 10s tournaments.
On May 1st the team headed out
to Esher, Surrey, for the RFU May
Day Women’s 10s tournament. This
is a newly organised summer social
event and Imperial turned up happy
to enjoy the sun and see how far they
could go. After a slightly rusty start
in the opening half of their ﬁrst pool
match against Chichester, Imperial
soon eased into the game again, re-
membering the solid plays and team
work that had won them their titles
this season. It wasn’t long before the
team were back on ﬁne form despite
the lack of time to practice much 10s.
With conﬁdence restored after beat-
ing Chichester, the team then faced
St George’s who dominated in the
scrum, forcing Imperial to rethink
their positioning in the pack. Scram-
ble defence, notably from next year’s
captain Pip Heggie, helped us hold St
George’s oﬀ from the try line despite
several close calls. In the ﬁnal pool
match, Imperial faced Southampton,
winning conﬁdently thanks to breaka-
way runs from current captain Yasmin
Edwards and Amy Humphreys. With
three wins from three and coming top
of their pool, Imperial qualiﬁed for
the ﬁnal played on the main stadium
pitch. IC conceded an early try to Sur-
rey but equalised with a last minute
try from winger Sammy Ardi bringing
the score to 7-7 at full time. It then be-
came a tense golden try situation and
IC worked as a team to dominate the
game. The reward was a try beneath
the posts by Lucy Olliﬀ after crashing
through the Surrey defence with style.
IC won the competition and were
awarded the cup by England Women’s
scrum half La Toya Mason.
Just 3 days later, IC once again head-
ed out to play some more Rugby, this
time to Richmond where they entered
the Middlesex Ladies 7s Bowl. They
reached the ﬁnal of the tournament
which was played in front of a crowd
in the main stadium and faced Rich-
mond Saxons, a team of considerably
older and more experienced play-
ers. IC had already played this team
twice in the tournament, losing the
ﬁrst game and winning the second so
everything was to play for. IC started
strong, keeping possession of the ball
Can anything stop ICUWRFC?
SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 17 MAY
30
Sports Writer
Charlotte Hewitt
The British University Tenpin Bowl-
ing Association (BUTBA) Cup ﬁnal
against Loughborough, Sheﬃeld, and
Portsmouth took place in Rugby last
bank holiday Sunday.
In the semi-ﬁnal, we were matched
against our Northern dominant rival,
Sheﬃeld. Facing six strong Sheﬃeld
bowlers who all had 180-pin averages,
Imperial bowlers showed remarkable
resilience. After an enthralling battle,
Imperial team B (Kelvin Wong (c), Mi-
chael Lau, and Raymond Yang) were
only 6 pins behind the opponents,
with scores 505-498, 493-498, and
513-521. Although we lost 1-15 over-
all, there is no shame in defeat.
On the ﬂip side, our best Imperial
bowler, Hui Erh Tay, has never let us
down. Hitting a 617 high series (183-
216-218) in the semi-ﬁnal, she broke
her own record in the BUCS Champi-
onship taken place last February. Un-
surprisingly, this has secured her the
titles of ‘Female High Game’ and ‘Fe-
male High Series’ in the BUTBA Cup.
Moving on to the Second Runners-
up match, the Imperial team and their
southern rival, Portsmouth, were both
Sports Writer
Josephine Chiu
and smashing through the Saxons’
defence, and were rewarded with a
try scored by Yasmin Edwards. Enter-
ing the second half, IC’s defense was
strong with notably impressive tackles
made by Lucy Olliﬀ causing the crowd
to roar. The forwards worked well to
turn over the ball and regain posses-
sion, passing it out to the back line and
scoring two more tries by Carolanne
Vouriot and Sammy Ardi. The ﬁnal
score was 17-0 and IC were chuﬀed at
their success against such stiﬀ compe-
tition.
With these results, ICUWRFC have
won all 5 competitions entered this
year and are relishing the new chal-
lenges posed by promotion in the
BUCS league for next year. In the
meantime, the team will be heading
to the Newquay Surf 7s tournament at
the end of June to enjoy the sun, sea
and to try and keep the winning streak
alive!
equally strong at the beginning, draw-
ing a tie 2-2 after the ﬁrst game. How-
ever, while Portsmouth maintained
their performance, our team slowly
lost shape, slipping points away in the
game and losing 3-13 in the end.
Even though Imperial was placed
fourth, the team wasn’t too upset. It
was far from a gloomy scene as it was
still our most outstanding achieve-
ment of all. “I would say this is a great
start. Well done to every team mem-
ber who tried their best,” Captain Kel-
vin Wong continued, ‘and put so much
eﬀort in training. You guys have been
amazing throughout the year.’
Tenpin get bowled over
ICUWRFC finish off their incredible season in style

