SPORT
31
FRIDAY 17 MAY
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
After what was quite a comfortable
win the previous week, we were full
of conﬁdence as we travelled to Sus-
sex. The opposition won the toss and
elected to bat ﬁrst on a wicket that of-
fered plenty of assistance to the seam-
ers early on. The Sussex captains de-
cision to bat ﬁrst was seeming like the
wrong one when Simon Mitchell had
one of their openers caught behind in
the second over, more tight bowling
from Simon and our captain Jayanth
Ganapathy saw the pressure mount
on the Sussex batsman and Jayanth
took advantage of this, ﬂattening the
Sussex number 3’s oﬀ stump in em-
phatic style. Some wayward bowling
from ﬁrst change bowler Jack Mc-
Curley relieved the opposition of
the pressure that was applied by the
opening bowlers. As soon as spin was
introduced it seemed as though the
pressure was back on the opposition
as left-arm spinner Darshan Patel
bowled his ﬁrst two overs for just one
run and controversially bowled their
other opener. Sadly this was as good
as it got for Patel as he continually
conceded extras throughout his spell
and although he ended with ﬁgures
of seven overs 1-23, 14 of those runs
were gifted to the batting side in sun-
dries. From the other end, Vignesh
Venkateswaran was unplayable (10-
4-17-2) and if it wasn’t for a few edges
his 10 overs would have gone for even
less than they did. Despite this and
some tidy bowling at the death by Jay-
anth (10-3-21-2) and Simon (9-1-30-
1), extras ﬂowed freely throughout
the innings as well as seven dropped
catches and Sussex closed their in-
nings on 183-6, which was really 50
more than they should’ve gotten.
In reply, Anmol Bedi and Y. Var-
ma got us oﬀ to a good start and it
seemed as though we would reach the
target with overs to spare. In the ﬁfth
over out of nowhere the pitch started
to do things that we didn’t see at all in
the previous innings. Some very pen-
etrative bowling and excellent ﬁeld-
ing saw Sussex take wickets at regular
intervals. Joe O’Gorman oﬀered some
resistance against their strong bowl-
ing attack and top scored with 18, this
was unfortunately not enough and we
were 64 all out in 25 overs. A disap-
pointing performance; in a game that
on another day, we could have won
quite comfortably; led to a 119 run
loss with the diﬀerence between the
two sides being solely down to a lack
of discipline on our part bowling 33
extras and dropping seven catches.
Everyone agrees that there is much
to be improved upon before the next
game and I hope to bring you better
news in the future. Watch this space!
Sports Writer
Darshan Patel
IC 2nd XI’s second game of the sea-
son, and their ﬁrst in BUCS, was
against Kings Medics 1st XI, a team
who had won their 2 games this sea-
son. However, a strong display by IC
led to a comfortable 50-run victory.
Stand-in skipper Will Baker got
oﬀ to a good start by assembling
everyone at Putney Bridge station
on time, before making the journey
to Berrylands. With some glorious
sunshine, and a ﬂat pitch, IC made a
strong start batting ﬁrst. Chris Gayle
Lomas Persad cracked a few unstop-
pable cover drives in typical Car-
ribean fashion before being adjudged
lbw on 28. Fellow opener Rohin Patel
had a careful start before blazing his
way to a match-winning 114. After
successive boundaries, one of the
opposition ﬁelders remarked, “You
can’t do anything about that, it’s just
good batting.” He was in a hurry to
get to somewhere after the game,
and hopefully he got there. There
was also good support from the mid-
dle order, with Hemant Morjaria’s 11
of 44 balls applauded by the skipper
and dubbed as “the Samaraweera to
Rohin’s Sangakkara”. Good contri-
butions from Jai Patel, Will Baker,
Johan Rekers, Cameron Currin and
Umar Minhas led to an imposing to-
tal of 286.
With morale high, IC set about
trying to get quick wickets, however
the opening pair started well with
a 130-run partnership. After Will
Baker slipped and bowled a delivery
over 2nd Slip’s head, the game was
slipping away. However Lomas, who
had bowled well without much luck,
ﬁnally knocked leg stump over. With
a tight 10-over spell from debutant
Priyank Shah with 2 wickets and run
out, IC were right back in the game.
One of the more comical catches
happened when Shah dropped an ab-
solute dolly of his own bowling, but
the ball popped straight into Cam-
eron Currin’s hands at short extra
cover. With electric ﬁelding and tight
bowling by Chris Hong from one
end, spinner Vignesh Venkataraman
had the opposition all-at-sea with a
brilliant spell of 5 overs, conceding 8
runs and picking up 4 wickets, with
some brilliant keeping from Jai Patel.
Further wickets from Umar Minhas
and Johan Rekers completed the in-
nings. The opposition were visibly
shaken, writing ‘Yosn’ instead of ‘Jo-
han’ in the scorebook. The umpires
were also baﬄed about some strange
noises being heard on the ﬁeld. This
had no relation to where Hemant
Morjaria was ﬁelding, obviously.
Two catches from the skipper were
enough to seal the victory in the rap-
idly fading light giving IC a hand-
some victory and maintaining their
now 2 match unbeaten run!
On Wednesday the 24th April, the
BUCS Outdoor Cricket season began.
We had our ﬁrst game at our home
ground Harlington against the Univer-
sity of Reading. Reading arrived late
so the game was reduced to 46 overs
per innings. Reading won the toss and
chose to bat ﬁrst.
Jayanth Ganapathy and Shazad Ah-
mad opened up and kept it tight at the
start. We got a breakthrough early on
and we were on top. Their next part-
nership was a good one and it seemed
like we were going to chase a large total
if we did not get a breakthrough. Shaz-
il Choukath, our 1st change medium
pacer, was brought into the attack and
caused a few problems initially with
his pace but soon enough, the bats-
men started enjoying the extra pace
on a slow pitch. The spinners, Darshan
Patel and Joe O’Gorman, were brought
in and immediately troubled both the
set batsmen. It only took a few overs
for the spinners to strike dismissing
the pair.
More wickets fell and with the help
of some tight bowling at the end of the
innings we restricted Reading to 173-9
oﬀ 46 overs. Jayanth ﬁnished with ex-
cellent ﬁgures of 4 for 22 oﬀ 10 overs,
Darshan with 2 for 20 oﬀ 9 overs,
Shazad with 1 for 24 oﬀ 9 overs and
Joe 2 for 36 oﬀ 9 overs. Imperial went
in to bat after Tea needing 174 from 46
at around 3.8 runs per over.
Anmol Bedi and Vishal Nair opened
up and were tested by Reading’s open-
ing bowlers. Anmol was dismissed
early and I, Juhin Patel, went in.
Vishal and I played ourselves in and
soon started opening up. We shared
a strong 100 run partnership at a
healthy run rate. However, in the same
over I was run out for 37, Vishal was
stumped on 57. Another wicket fell in
that over and a collapse was possible.
In came two new batsmen, Jayanth
and Joe. They both played sensibly and
kept the scoreboard ticking by work-
ing the ball around. Eventually, we suc-
cessfully chased down the target with
10 overs left to play. Jayanth ﬁnished
on 43 not out and Joe on 24 not out. It
was a strong performance overall and
we are now conﬁdent going into the
next game.
SportsWriter
Juhin Patel
Priyank Shah Sports Writer
Felix Sport gets the lowdown on cricket’s continued success
2nd XI cruise to 50 run win
1st XI chase well
Summer (and cricket) is here!

