Issue 1547
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
17/05/13
@SportFelix
This year saw a record number of
TriIC members travel to St Mary’s
school in Calne for the 2013 BUCS
Sprint Championships. It was a stun-
ning morning, the perfect set up for
a full day ahead of racing and sun-
ning ourselves on the grass. Eighteen
people worked together in the Tetris
challenge of squeeze themselves, their
bags and racing bikes into two mini-
buses but with everything ﬁnally on
board we set oﬀ down the M4 on open
roads, treated to faint snoring noises
from the back seats.
New club captain Siân Morgan be-
gan the long eventful day in a whirl-
wind stress. So in the spirit of club
camaraderie the entire front row of
the bus decided to wind her up some
more. It is far too easy to do, espe-
cially with Marcel “trouble-maker”
Admiraal leading the assault. But once
we’d made it to Calne time was too
short to get worried about what was
happening later that day; we had to get
into racing gear. TriIC’s ﬁrst competi-
tor, Hugh Sparks, had 20min to regis-
ter, set up transition, warm up, change
for the swim and get to the race brief-
ing. Despite this unprecedented rush,
he clocked in a strong ﬁnish, coming
243rd/412, starting us oﬀ well with
a good opening swim of 14:31. Siân
Morgan, Ed Hallett and Richard Flint
were up next, entering a busy pool.
Siân dominated with a substantially
faster swim than the others, but errors
in the pool were soon made up by Ed
on the bike.
With the sun beating down, it was
easy to get into racing mood. Getting
out on the bike leg was beautiful and
brought back a lot of cycle passion for
everyone after a dreadful winter of
spin classes and turbo training. Mar-
cel Admiraal disappointed an eager
crowd by not achieving his self-pre-
dicted 25min for 25Km on the bike,
but ﬁnished well for a ﬁrst triathlon.
Out of 18 people, 13 had never done
one before, so a superb eﬀort.
Screw-Up Of The Day has to go to
Mike Kaye who 30min before his race
while wheeling his bike to transition,
managed to not only blow an inner
tube but shred his front tyre complete-
ly in the process. The deﬁnitive image
of a beaten man, with glasses down,
he wobbled his bike back to a sympa-
thetic home crowd and disappeared
for a stress relief “man run” to ease the
pain. As soon as Siân heard about the
shocker after her race, she marched
straight to the marshals oﬃce in all
her sweaty glory to see what could be
done. God knows how, but she man-
aged to negotiate Mike another time
slot in 15 minutes.
Siân was now back into panic mode.
By this point Mike had run a full 10k
and wasn’t totally sure where he was.
With all hands on deck, the Mike Kaye
Support Crew organised necessary
transition prep and race numbers, as
well as setting up Ed’s bike for him to
borrow. Back from the run, Mike prac-
tically jogged straight into the pool
to start his race. The fun wasn’t over
however, as coming out of the pool, he
had no idea where the bike was. A dai-
sy chain of Imperial triathletes shout-
ed directions until he found it and was
soon on and out of sight with a shining
grin on his face. When he crossed the
ﬁnish line an hour later Mike returned
to a hero’s welcome.
The race included a 750m pool
swim, 25k bike and a 5k run (actu-
ally 5.65K measured by Garmin). The
swim was hectic, with thirty people in
the pool in each heat. The organisers
tried to slot you in with people of a
similar swim time, but it was no use.
For some, a lot of time was lost in let-
ting people over take at pool ends as
required in the race rules. Open water
swims will always be a better measure
of your swim capability. Transition
was easy and well organised, but a long
run out with the bike made it a long
transition time. The bike was on open
roads, no closures, but it was less of an
issue than expected. No traﬃc lights,
which was a huge relief, but there were
a few junctions to stop at if there was
traﬃc. A nice bike led into a ﬂat out
and back run and a water stop at the
turn around point which was very well
received. Shame it was a signiﬁcant
distance longer than the quoted 5k.
The team performed superbly:
BUCS Sprint is the highest calibre
event in our calendar, and this year
was no exception, with a huge GB
team turn out. Top TriIC ﬁnishers
were Jean-Claude Besse coming 21st
overall, beating many GB competitors
which is an incredible achievement
and Aimee Di Marco ﬁnishing 23rd in
the women’s category.
Other notable ﬁnishers are Tom
Pearson who, despite never doing a
triathlon before, and never racing on
his new bike, clocked the 68th fastest
bike time, beating well seasoned tri-
athletes at their own game, and Hen-
drik Frentrup clocking 98th fastest
bike leg.
The rest of the day was food, sun,
supporting our competitors, and in
the case of Liz Crow, fraternising with
the enemy. But we soon ﬁgured out
she was actually dating the guy from
Cambridge Triathletes and wasn’t just
TriIC sprint to the finish
Ed Hallet Sports Writer
Temperatures rise at BUCS Sprint Triathlon
a massive ﬂirt. Siân’s home baked muf-
ﬁns went down a treat as we watched
the ﬁnal racers ﬂy by, having waited all
day for their chance to clock a time. It’s
deﬁnitely better to race early, how else
can you justify gorging on a picnic of
carbs and protein.
We had a great insight into the
worldly knowledge of our members,
including an idea to cycle the Danube
River, which Annabelle Meyers loved
as she’s “always wanted to cycle In-
dia”…
Before we went home we ducked in
for a quick pub stop to look at photos,
results and play a game of pool watch-
ing the sun go down. Race lethargy
soon set in. BUCS Olympic distance is
our next big race, with an open water
swim it will allow the club to put its
new wetsuits to good use, and maybe
we can rack up some more stunning
ﬁnishes. This is likely to be the last
race report for the year, so a massive
thank you must be made to the TriIC
committee: Hendrik Frentrup, Sarah
Lewis, Harriet Nerva and most im-
portantly Siân Morgan for stepping up
as chairman for the summer term and
rocking the show! I may even say the
club is stronger with the rearrange-
ment so thanks guys. We have had an
amazing year, growing exponentially
and racing like mad.

