NEWS
4 FRIDAY 17 MAY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Alleged animal abuse investigation scope announced
Imperial College London have an-
nounced the makeup of the committee
and the areas of the allegations of ani-
mal cruelty that they will be investigat-
ing. The committee, lead by Professor
Steve Brown, will investigate and as-
sess the culture and approach to animal
care and welfare at College. The Home
Office are also investigating specific al-
legations, which the College say they
are “working closely” with them.
The committee will provide a report
to the College “in three to four months”
time after its investigation. The report
will say their findings and any recom-
mendations for improvement. It will
“elaborating on any areas where prac-
tice falls short of standards considered
to be at the forefront of animal research
and animal welfare standards in the
UK”. The committee will investigate all
practices in animal research, including:
management, operational procedures,
reporting structures, supervision, train-
ing and ethics. This will be done by con-
ducting interviews and visiting the labs.
College says that the investigation will
take into account “Imperial College’s
consideration of the incidents alleged
by BUAV”.
Professor Brown, Director of the
Medical Research Council’s Mamma-
lian Genetics Unit at Harwell, was ap-
proached in April to lead an investiga-
tion after the BUAV accused College
of animal abuse. College have stressed
multiple times that Professor Brown
is “independent”. The BUAV however
contest this, saying: “a well-known and
strong supporter of animal research,
heading the Medical Research Council
(MRC) unit which manipulates mice to
predispose them to develop all manner
of diseases, but the MRC actually funds
animal research at the Imperial College.
This is hardly an independent inquiry.”
Michelle Thew, Chief Executive of the
BUAV said, “The public are likely to
see Imperial’s inquiry into the animal
suffering and poor practices uncovered
(C) BUAV
by our investigation as a whitewash.
This investigation raises significant and
far reaching questions about animal re-
search in the UK. We urge the Govern-
ment to set up a fully independent in-
quiry as a matter of urgency. The public
will expect no less.”
Morrissey, the former lead singer for
The Smiths, has joined the calls for an
independent inquiry into the allega-
tions of animal abuse at Imperial Col-
lege London. Morissey, who has for a
long time been very outspoken about
animal welfare, joins former Imperial
student and Queen guitarist Brian May.
May said that he was “shocked and sad-
dened” by the allegations and “ashamed
that it could have taken place in the uni-
versity of my own training”.
The BUAV is currently urging the UK
Government to take away the licence
that they have for animal research and
to set up an inquiry into the allega-
tions that is “wholly independent of the
Home Office”. Michelle Thew, Chief
Executive of the BUAV, stated: “We
welcome the support from Morrissey
on this important issue. Our investiga-
tion at Imperial College London raises
significant and far reaching questions
about animal research in the UK and
it is crucial that a fully independent in-
quiry is carried out.”
The rest of the committee will consist
of:
• Professor Paul Flecknell, Newcas-
tle University, who is responsible
for the overall management of
Newcastle University’s research
animal facilities
• Mr Neil Yates, Director of the Bio-
support Unit, University of Not-
tingham
• Professor Ian Jackson, Head of
Medical and Developmental Ge-
netics, Institute of Genetics and
Molecular Medicine, University of
Edinburgh
• Dr Vicky Robinson, Chief Execu-
tive, National Centre for the Re-
placement, Refinement and Reduc-
tion of Animals in Research
• Dr Maggie Leggett, Head of Public
Engagement, Bristol University.
Find out what our dynamic community can offer you
This unique event for third and fourth year undergraduates is an ideal
opportunity to visit Imperial College Business School and find out more
about a selection of our world class Master’s programmes.
• Meet programme directors, students and alumni
• Get a flavour of our unique culture with a series of taster lectures
• Sit in on careers presentations to find out how we can help fulfil your goals
• Drop in at our admissions surgery and have your questions answered
Find out more and register at:
imperial.ac.uk/business-school/experience-evening2013
@imperialbiz
linkedin.com/company/
imperial-college-business-school
BUSINESS SCHOOL
EXPERIENCE EVENING
WEDNESDAY 22 MAY 2013
17.30 – 20.30
WIN AN iPad!
A winner will be chosen at random and announced at the event.
Editorial: page 2
>>

