NEWS
6 FRIDAY 17 MAY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Imperial finds partners
Imperial has partnered with Oxford,
Cambridge, UCL and Southampton to
form a new consortium named Science
and Engineering South Consortium
(SES-5). The idea is to innovate and
explore new ideas through collabora-
tion. The SES-5 have a combined an-
nual research spend of over £1.3 billion.
Together they hold a substantial amount
of the research awards. The universities
involved are five of the six top research
powers in the UK.
Professor David Price, Vice-Provost
for Research at UCL said: “Our insti-
tutions are committed to the concept
that competition between ideas and
hypotheses is essential for the healthy
development of excellent and impact-
ful research.” He said that the group are
“convinced of the value to the UK and
beyond of collaboration and the sharing
of insights and resources”. Professor
Ian Walmsley, Oxford’s Pro Vice-Chan-
cellor for Research said: “The SES-5
will be well-placed both to compete and
to collaborate with other world-class in-
stitutions on the global stage.”
The SES-5 will aim to share infra-
structure and collaborate to become
better. There is already a project under-
way to share facilities for High Perfor-
mance Computing. Donal Bradley, Pro-
Rector for Research at Imperial College
London said: “It is vital that we main-
tain our pre-eminence in research and
careful planning of our infrastructure is
essential if we are to maintain a leading
international position”.
The SES-5 have been accused of
“ganging up” on the rest of the universi-
ty sector. Philip Nelson, pro Vice-Chan-
cellor for research at Southampton said
that they were not “ “ganging up on the
rest of the sector” and trying to “run off
with the loot”. This is the latest alliance
to be announced, with others including
the N8 group of northern English uni-
versities in 2007. The south-western
GW4 alliance and the Midlands-based
M5 group.
Imperial partners up for
PRiME Chip Research
Project
Imperial College London has partnered
with Southampton, Manchester and
Newcastle have partnered to develop
more efficient computer architectures
in a five-year £5.6m PRiME (Power-
efficient Reliable many-core Embedded
systems) project.
The venture will be funded by a grant
from the Engineering and Physical Sci-
ences Research Council (EPSRC).
All photos: Tom Webb
2013/14 SPRING REGISTRATION WITH NEW COURSE OPTIONS
DSS Registration for BPES (formally BEST) SPRING courses
will open at 9am on:
Tuesday 21st May for Spring electives
· Finance and Financial Management
· Sustainable Business New
· Strategic Management New
· Managing Organisations New
· Marketing New
Why BPES?
Broaden your perspective and gain an advantage when
moving into management positions
Engineer or Scientist? Then BPES from Imperial College Business School
will be of immense benefit to you. You will gain an understanding of the
financial, strategic, operational and organisational context in which
engineering and much science takes place, making you an attractive
candidate to any employer.
Places on all courses are limited and will be allocated on a strictly
first-come, first-served basis.
For more information and course outlines, please visit:
imperial.ac.uk/business-school/programmes/undergraduate
BUSINESS FOR PROFESSIONAL
ENGINEERS AND SCIENTISTS (BPES)
A student has won £300 at the Technol-
ogy in Medicine and Surgery confer-
ence’s Dragon’s Den style competition.
Tom Webb’s idea was to distribute 5000
postcards depicting the four deadliest
snakes in India with information about
each. He says that there is “a significant
chance that this idea could save the
lives of a large number of people”. The
postcards would be targeted at schools
in high risk areas to educate people
about the risks. Webb said: “A shroud
of mythology still surrounds snakes in
India in some communities and many
bites are treated using traditional thera-
pies. In order to persuade people to
adopt more evidence-based practices,
the postcards could contain straight-
forward first aid advice for if a person
is bitten. Also, if medical aid is sought
following a bite, the postcards may be
shown to the healthcare providers and
the offending species pointed out.”
In India, one million people a year are
bitten by snakes, 50,000 of whom then
die. The competition part of the confer-
ence that was organised by the ICSM
Surgical Society.
I’m going to make you an offer
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Top research
powerhouses
form new
consortium

