DRUGS SURVEY
OF THE 762 RESPONSES...
54% SAID THEY HAD TRIED DRUGS
57%
MALE
49%
FEMALE
SAID YES TO
HAVING TRIED
DRUGS
Druggy Departments
It may be that Imperial is not as bad an inﬂuence on incoming
students as people may think. With 76% of students who have
tried drugs having done so before university, it may be that a
certain element of the drug culture is derived from students’
past experiences outside of College.
That said, are these people having an inﬂuence on students
who may not have tried anything before? It was found that
95% of students who now sell drugs did indulge in the highs
before UCAS was sent oﬀ, showing that longevity is the key
to dealing success.
Some naïve Freshers may be remaining naïve throughout
their years, but some students are, as expected, experiment-
ing as the years go on. Based on year of intake, more and
more people have taken drugs the longer they have been at
university. A diﬀerence of only around 14% however between
this year’s spread of students does hint that there still isn’t
much of a drug inﬂuence within the student body.
What drugs are people taking?
Perhaps fairly unsurprisingly the drug that most people had
tried was cannabis, by a pretty signiﬁcant amount. The least
tried was heroin (Imperial isn’t THAT depressing it seems).
In terms of regular and occasional use, cannabis was once
again head and shoulders above the rest. MDMA/Ecstasy was
second, with laughing gas in third. The rest were all in single
ﬁgures for occasional use. Interestingly, laughing gas was the
drug with the highest percent of “tried once” use. This could be
because it is widely available on holiday in Malia, Kavos, and
all other destinations likely to feature on Sun, Sex and Suspi-
cious Parents. The only drug that threw up an even remotely
statistically signiﬁcant number for habitual (daily) use was
cannabis.
There was a bit of a discrepancy between the drugs that men
and women favoured, but it was fairly minor. A higher propor-
tion of men said that they regularly smoke weed.
For an academically demanding university, there didn’t seem
to be widespread use of study drugs such as ritalin and aderall.
Heroin
Methoxetamine
DMT
Benzos
Prescription opiates
LSD
Speed
Mephedrone
Cocaine
Ketamine
Mushrooms
Before or during university?
2009 – 61%
2011 - 51&
2012 – 47%
2010 – 58%
So is there a drug community at Imperial? This seems to be
dependant on who you ask. When asking those who have ever
taken drugs, 44% consider there to be some sort of drug scene,
whereas those who have not fallen susceptible to chemical highs
at any point either generally don’t know if there is a scene (41%)
or don’t think there is (26%). When it comes to drugs therefore,
it seems to be the case it is who you know, not necessarily what
you know.
Survey Design: Tim Arbabzadah,
Ross Gray
Survey Coding: Philip Kent, Jonathan
Kim
Analysis: Tim Arbabzadah, Ross Gray,
Philippa Skett
Words: Tim Arbabzadah, Philippa
Skett
Illustrations: Lizzy Griffiths
It seems that, reﬂective of the free-thinking student body that we are, many put
down drug trialling whilst at Imperial down to curiosity and fun, which
may correlate to the locations of drug trial being most often in bars or
clubs. The Union apparently appears more bearable than previously
considered, with only 6 students admitting to having to resort to more
than alcohol to have a good time.
However, it does depend on when you started experimenting – many
who started taking drugs before university, have said they have also pres-
sured someone in their past: 11% have admitted to persuading their friends into
taking a toke at some point too.
Students who have taken up the habit since starting seem to be more relaxed,
with only 7% having an inﬂuence on others. All in all though, peer pressure seems
very lax at Imperial, possibly indicative as to why seemingly few people pick up the
habit after coming to South Kensington.
So, the question on the lips on the academi-
cally inclined Imperial students may be:
does drug taking eﬀect your degree? For
those who take drugs, all in all, 86% people
stated that their drug use has not inﬂuenced
their degree at all. This does diﬀer between
Departments however: 17% of those in Bio-
engineering seem to think that drugs have
somewhat disrupted their studies, whereas in
other departments this percentage seems to
be signiﬁcantly less.
So what sort of dependency are students experiencing with drugs? With cannabis
being the popular drug of choice on campus, it seems that this correlates with
the low level of dependency being experienced across the student body. Only 9
people have said they have experienced dependency of any sort, with 6 being only
psychologically dependant and 3 being physically dependant too. However, with
4% of those who have taken drugs suspected addiction, this may be something that
needs to be addressed by welfare services in the future.
Despite the vagueness within this open question, 60% of those that take
drugs consider alcohol to be just as, if not more so harmful. This increases
to 64% of those sampled who were using drugs before starting university
When asked about legalisation in general, 42% said drugs should be legalised.
For future surveys, asking people what speciﬁc drugs should be made legal
would be better. A lot of people had long, eloquent responses to this one.
Many said some (soft) drugs, not all, should be legal. Mostly, people said can-
nabis should be legalised.
Of the people that said that they wanted drugs to be legalised, just under
75% of them had taken drugs before, which is no surprise. What was a bit
weird was that of the people that took drugs 57% said it should be legalised,
meaning 43% want it to be illegal, but still want to do it – presumably so they
can feel like massive badasses whenever they do a line. “I’m dangerous baby,
I do things that are illegal, and rightly so”.
Men favoured legalisation a lot more (oi oi banter with the lads etc?) than
women: 48% of men say that it should be legalised, while only 31% of women
thought it should be legalised. 31% of women said no to legalisation. So, in
general, men are keener on legalisation and women are keener on not legalis-
ing. When comparing departments, Physics were most for it (53% say yes,
presumably to make staring out to space more interesting and trippy), and
Earth Science & Engineering seemed not keen on the idea with 25% wanting
legalisation. Who needs drugs when you’re staring at rocks all day! Unsur-
prisingly, people who said that they either took drugs regularly, or used to
take drugs regularly, very heavily favoured legalisation.
A university wide drugs study ran by Student Beans in 2012, answered by
1,903 people, found that actually 54% of students would have taken drugs
in there time at university.
However, nationally, 79% of students who have taken drugs did so be-
fore university, showing that we seem to have attracted the less adventur-
ous sixth formers.
But how do we compare to the world outside of university? Latest ﬁgures
from the Home Oﬃce show that two thirds of adults have taken drugs at
least once, meaning that for those not brave enough to get experimental
on campus, there is still hope for after graduation. However, with the na-
tional average of ﬁrst time drug use being between the ages of 16 and 18,
this explains why so many students who take drugs at Imperial already did
so before arriving in October.
Drug taking community? Harming your degree?
Drug dependency
Legalisation
YES
42%
NO
36%
DON’T
KNOW
21%
Compared to others
Drugs vs Booze
The survey was entirely anonymous.
At no point could anyone match your
name to your response. For more
information on how this was done,
email felix@imperial.ac.uk
Thank you to everyone that took the
survey!
The trouble with surveys
This is the most boring part of the
whole survey, so I won’t write too
much.
When undertaking a survey such as
this there are many problems. They
don’t just involve people trolling it for
their own amusement. There is, we
believe, a self selection process. If you
have taken drugs you are more likely
to take the survey. Although this is,
of course, something that we cannot
prove. There is also the reverse in op-
eration. People may be wary of taking
such a survey and admitting to illegal
activities. This is made more diﬃcult
by the fact that you had to put your
College username and password in to
access the survey. A lot of people who
hadn’t taken drugs also did the survey,
and the views we got were fascinating. I
really hope that you enjoy having a look
at this as much as we enjoyed making
it. It’s safe to say we may have messed
up the wording of some questions, and
have much to learn, but there’s a ﬁrst
time for everything. – Tim Arbabzadah
Peer pressure
Chemical
Engineering
–
43
Business
School
–
100
Materials
–
71
Mech
Eng
–
63
Bioengineering
–
63
Civil
Engineering
–
62
Physics
–
61
Life
Sciences
–55
Mathematics
–
52
Aeronautics
–
52
Humanities
–
50
EEE
–
48
Medicine
–
47
Chemistry
–
47
Computing
–
47
Earth
Science
&
Engineering
–
45
Note that all numbers in the above graph are quoted as percentages of respondents from that department. The sample size for Business School, Materials, and Humanities was very low.
“Cannabis should be legalised and maybe
MDMA. They’re the only ones I’ve seen
with scientific studies saying they are less
damaging than alcohol.”
“I used to agree with legalisation until I worked with psych
patientsandsawthelongtermeffectsofcannabisonsome
people- I think legalizing would mean people relax about
taking it and therefore more people are at risk of mental
health problems so I am against it.”
“I think there are little groups of peo-
ple who are known for taking MDMA
on nights out, or smoking weed at
parties, but they integrate very well
within social groups who merely
drink on nights out.”
“Some not all should be legalised. If
you were starting a society, on day
zero you would outlaw booze and
legalise weed. No one ever got into
a fight outside a bar after getting
high”
“Drugs are bad mmm-
kay”
“I used to acquire can-
nabis by growing it….”
“Other places: festivals, friends
houses, in a park on a fine summer’s
day. How have drugs affected my
degree: marginally due to the equiv-
alent of hangovers. Far less than
beer has... but it would feel a little
wrong to say not at all.”
“The scarcity of MDMA fuels almost
all other ‘club’ drugs, and cannabis is
an effective substitute for alcohol. I
believe legalising or decriminalising
MDMA and cannabis would reduce
most other soft drug use, and in that
sense having them as class A causes
more harm via the alternatives.”
“Not all illegal drugs,
but the less harmful
ones such as cannabis
should be legalised.”
Tried once
Used to take regularly
Occasionally
Habitually (every day)
Regularly
Cannabis
MDMA/Ecstasy
Laughing Gas
Others
Ritalin/Aderall

