Gilead Amit
10 felix Friday 23 May 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Apologies, but I feel a rant coming on...
Sir,
Between Jaimie Henry's, "A Geek"'s
and Matthew Kaufeler's assessments
of Boris Johnson's election in their ar-
ticles in the last issue of Felix, I think
one could possibly raise a question of
bias in the Imperial student paper, es-
pecially as their attacks on the London
Mayor were all entirely gratuitous con-
sidering the unrelated points of their
respective articles. However, I am less
bothered by the liberal leanings of a
university paper (who'd have thought?)
and far more concerned by the sugges-
tion presented by both Mr. Kaufeler
and Mr. Henry that anyone who voted
for Mr. Johnson did so because they
thought him a joker and a legend.
This view is not just myopic, but
rather offensive to the majority of peo-
ple who voted for Johnson for serious
reasons; A few may have voted for Mr.
Johnson because they were concerned
with the crippling taxes his predeces-
Letters to Felix
Bias and Boris
bashing
sor charged the people of London (it is
not impressive to achieve a lot if one
simply overcharges everyone and then
operates in a wasteful manner – see:
Metronet). There were some who vot-
ed for Mr. Johnson because they would
like to see the police have the ability
to deal with crime in a more effective
manner. Some perfectly reasonable
people were slightly concerned about
having a Mayor who siphoned off
public funds to his friends' "special
projects" (also known as "holidays")
and used vast amounts of tax money
to retain unnecessary staff. And, of
course, some actually admired Boris.
This scholarship-winning, Oxford-ed-
ucated "idiot" has on many an occasion
displayed an honesty that is virtually
non-existent in the political world. He
has shown a willingness not to toe the
party line over his own beliefs when it
would be much simpler to be a hack. It
is a foolish mistake to confuse quirki-
ness with a lack of intelligence, to mix
up personal disarray with professional
inability.
If the friends of Mr. Kaufeler and Mr.
Henry only voted for Boris because
they liked "Have I got News For You",
then I would suggest that they find
more enlightened conservative ac-
quaintances for debate.
Abioye A Oyetunji
Jaimie Henry responds,
Whilst I generally don’t feel that I have
to defend the views I write for a Univer-
sity newspaper column, there are some
points that Abioye A Oyetunji raised
that, rather unfortunately, grossly mis-
represent the message I was writing.
Regarding the apparent one-sided
attack by Felix on Boris, perhaps you
should consider why the articles had
been written by numerous independent
contributors, who no doubt have very
different ideals. Claims of bias would
only be true if Felix had declined to pub-
lish any anti-Ken articles (and indeed,
considering the TfL photocard debacle
that has been extensively covered in the
past, this can hardly be the case). See-
ing as Felix probably received no anti-
Ken articles [Correct – Editor], one can
only assume that the reason why the
paper appeared anti-Boris was because
many students held genuine concerns
regarding his ability as Mayor.
I do not have a problem with people
voting for Boris. I thought I had made it
blithely obvious that I am ecstatic that
democracy is working in the general
sense that people are getting out and
voting. And of course Boris will have
numerous supporters who truly sup-
port his ideals. My worry is that many
voters are becoming blind to what they
are really voting for. Whilst this is less
important for someone who could al-
most be competent, such as Boris, it
is nothing less than horrifying when it
spreads to extremist parties such as
the BNP, as I outlined in my article. I
am not wishing to be too partisan here;
if you felt that Ken was wasteful and
voted against him, then this is good. If
you think Boris will cut crime and you
believe his manifesto, then even better.
If you chose Boris as a buffoon and a bit
of a laugh, then you don’t deserve your
vote, because you run the risk of doing
the same for extremists.
But seeing as you did raise politi-
cal issues, I will address some of them
briefly. Boris’ policies, as yet, seem
worthless. The RMT say that his “no
alcohol” rule on public transport will
not be enforced by their members for
their own safety; moreover it has been
illegal to be intoxicated on the Under-
ground for years. Generally people who
are drunk and abusive tend to already
be drunk and abusive before they get
on the tube; any drinking they do on
the tube is comparatively insignificant.
As for the police, it is doubtful if Boris
has the power to overturn the recom-
mendations of the Stephen Lawrence
inquiry and remove Stop and Account
forms, especially when racial tensions
between police and ethnic minority
communities are on a knife edge. I can
see plenty of empty promises on the ho-
rizon, so I probably shouldn’t need to
say that Boris has been proven to have
lied to his own party leader and has
been involved in some very question-
able activities (including attempting to
assist a known thug in assaulting an in-
vestigative journalist). Noble qualities
in a “serious,
” albeit “quirky” politician,
I’m sure.
By the way, I do not select my friends
on the basis of their political ideals,
however well informed they may be.
This is mainly because I don’t want to
turn into Harry Enfield’s “Tory Boy.
”
I
’m finding it hard to get started
this week. The noise you can’t
hear in the background is the
rabid chanting of thousands of
fans in a Moscow stadium wait-
ing for the final of the UEFA Cham-
pion’s League to begin. By the time you
read this, you’ll know what the result
is. What’s more, you’ll probably care.
Well, I suppose you’re entitled to. For
my part, the only reason I’m sitting
within earshot is because I’ve got no-
where else to write.
Ah, ITV have courteously informed
me that there are ten minutes till kick-
off. Well, let’s see if I can get this done
by the time the endless succession of
beer adverts finish.
Oh look, a half-naked lady was in
that one. Surprise surprise.
It’s beginning to occur to me that this
is coming across as a touch snobbish.
I’m sorry about that, this is just my
ill-tempered reaction to the increas-
ingly pathetic quality of the television
adverts my eardrums are being pierced
by. I’m not an elitist. Well, I suppose
I am, but not when it comes to foot-
ball or any related activity. If my elit-
ism exists at all, it’s when it comes to
thought.
Don’t get me wrong; I have no objec-
tion to people voicing opinions I disa-
gree with, or even to people voicing
stupid opinions I disagree with. The
only thing I ask for is that people keep
them away from me. Is that too much
to ask?
Some people develop allergies to pol-
len, others to various animals, foods or
chemicals. I’m allergic to most cats, the
heat, and, for some inexplicable reason,
nickel. In addition to that, I’m allergic
to stupidity.
I feel a strong inclination to vomit
when I get in close proximity to fuzzy
thinking, incoherent rambling and the
mind-warping ignorance that some
people believe passes for valid opinion.
As a result, of course, I’m mildly aller-
gic to myself.
The biggest curse for people with my
condition is the omnipresent YouTube.
Like everyone else with a computer
and time to kill, I spend a great deal
too much time on that infernal web-
site. No matter how hard I force myself
to only look at the videos, however, I
occasionally find myself glancing at the
comments section underneath.
These experiences inevitably result
in the same questions flashing through
my mind. Where do these people come
from? In what filth-infested slime do
these cretins that people the web make
their home? Where are they all? Is
there a baboon colony somewhere that
has been granted internet privileges? If
anything in the world is likely to bring
me out in hives, it is the sheer, unadul-
terated, moronic idiocy that displays
itself in the dank recesses of the Net.
Anonymity is, of course, the greatest
disinhibitor. As a result, the internet is
a fertile breeding ground for bigotry
and general insanity. A few choice mo-
ments on the right websites can bring
you face-to-url with some of the great-
est charlatans, freaks and idiots that
are out there.
The offers to send money to West
African generals, the endless stream
of (fairly insulting) e-mails implying
the inadequacy of my manhood, the
concspiracy theorists, the more dis-
concerting brand of political zealot;
all these are to be found in the world’s
largest arena. Usually, I can laugh it off.
Occasionally, though, something tips
me over the edge. And it’s a long way
to fall.
Still, as I make a superhuman effort
to cool myself down, I admit that I have
no objection to these evolutionary
throwbacks eking out their miserable
existence wherever they do. They can
spout their unspeakable bilge to any-
one they know who has the ability to
understand English. But please, please,
for God’s sake, keep it away from me.
“
I have no
objection to
people voicing
stupid opinions
... The only
thing I ask for
is that people
keep them away
from me. Is that
too much to
ask?
” Oh, one day to be able to rant like Angry Geek
This article contains frustration of an adult nature

