Caz Knight
Arts Editor
18 felix Friday 23 May 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
G
reetings, erudite Imperial-
ist! As I write this the sun is
shining and I hope you are
procrastinating revision to
enjoy the weather and give
the left side of your brain a rest from all
those numbers, rules and facts while in-
dulging the right side of your brain with
some art, creativity and randomness.
Rid your cluttered mind and indulge in
some fantasy created by artist H.R. Giger,
the man my article to the right is about.
If his work is a little too far out for you,
then perhaps both Derren Brown’s hyp-
nosis and artistic skills will provide more
suitable relief from the Nernst equation.
Those dreaming of the approaching day
when they can cease their abstinence and
go on an alcohol rampage, take heed: read
our theatrical review about the detriment
of alcohol.
For now, though, let us talk of “psycho-
geography”. As exciting as it sounds, psy-
chogeography creates playful, inventive
strategies for exploring new cities. That
is, getting one off the beaten track, allow-
ing oneself to be drawn into our environ-
ment, meandering into the unknown and
going with our spontaneity through the
act of dérive (drift).
One example of this is The Naked
City, a reconstructed guide to Paris fea-
turing areas which its authors (Jorn and
Guy Debord) felt had not been spoiled
by capitalist redevelopments. Another
example is our weekly Tube Map, where
we hand-pick anyting from theatres to
museums to book shops to parks. In this
issue I have selected a few of London’s
more pleasant and attractive parks . Per-
haps on your ramblings you will embark
on an adventure you never thought possi-
ble, meet your celebrity crush or even the
mother/father of your children. If you are
dissatisfied with the nature of the mod-
ern environment and want to make the
everyday world more interesting look no
further than Felix!
Summer is a time for festivals, with
a plethora of them available. However,
the excessive crowds at many of them
and pounding music may be a little off-
putting. Extend your psychogeographi-
cal jounrey outside London by taking in
some of this summer’s more quirky op-
purtunities such as the Secret Garden
Party at the end of July. The theme this
year is ‘Revolutions, past, present and fu-
ture’ where you are encouraged to take
part in theatre, performing Shakespeare
around fire circles, parades and much
more. With only 5000 capacity it promis-
es to be a much more intimate alternative
to some of the other gatherings. Equally
eccentric is the August-time Green Man
festival in Wales: psychedelic ramblings
(?), literature and music from Super Furry
animals are some of the things going on.
More mainstream and closer to home
is the Hampton Court Palace Festival
throughout June where you can enjoy
concerts and picnics at the same time..
Our advice at Felix is to indulge yourself
by buying a ticket to the festival of your
choice to keep the moral up until it’s all
over. No more exams? Buy one anyway!
Hans Rudi Giger is revealed
Genius to some and a cause of offense to others. Caz Knight tries to scratch the
surface on one of the most important, albeit at times unheard of, artists of our time
M
y purpose, through
the medium of this
article and adjoining
pictures, is to con-
vert you to the art,
the genius and pure astounding talent
of H.R. Giger. “Artist” is a term that
does not even scratch the surface of
what Giger is and what he has done for
many dimensions of culture and fan-
tasy, too. Painter, sculptor, architect,
innovator, genius, fantasist, creator of
dreams and nightmares would come
a little closer to describing who he is,
and yet still leaves much to be desired.
He is recognised as one of the world’s
foremost artists of Fantastic Realism,
and fantastic is truly what his artwork
is. “Fantastic realism”: Giger brings
fantasy to life and makes it so real one
has trouble believing his creations
have not existed, or do not exist some-
where. The slightly oxymoronic nature
of the phrase captures Giger himself
brilliantly: his work escapes definition
by having a seemingly “split” personal-
ity and this reinforces the beauty and
originality of his artistic endeavours.
The Swiss artist was born to chemist
parents in Chur, Switzerland in 1940
and had an educational grounding in
architecture and industrial design from
the School of Applied Arts, Zurich. His
father, when interviewed, remarked at
how a man with no knowledge of art
could bring into this world an artist
of such immense talent. From science
comes art, and from art comes science:
many of Giger’s works are a cause of
pure ecstasy to science-fiction fanat-
ics. One of his most notable offerings,
which transcends artistic disciplines,
is his work on Ridley Scott’s Alien
(1979), cinematic masterpiece. Ridley
Scott was “never so sure on anything
in my life” when he saw Giger’s third
(and most famous) book Necronomi-
con (1977), which served as the inspi-
rational fodder for the film in design-
ing Alien as well as in the landscape
of planet LV-426 where the crew first
encounter the alien eggs. His work
earned him the 1980 Oscar for Best
Achievement in Visual Effects. How-
ever, it is saddening when the majority
of fans of the film have not even heard
of the mind and imagination behind its
success. Alien fans reading this; make
it your business to educate yourself
on the man who is about to become
your favourite artist and “dreamer of
dreams”.
Begoetterung IX, acylic on paper (1979)
Giger works his magic on top of Brian Aris’ photo of Debbie Harry for
her cover of Koo-Koo
Unfortunately, the UK is not the best
place to go in search of Giger exhibi-
tions. Culturally abundant in most oth-
er areas of art, the country lacks access
to what artist Ernst Fuchs believes is
“one of the most important creators of
fine art of our time”. At present Giger’s
work can be viewed in Vienna, New
York, Prague, Zurich (the artist’s cur-
Mutanten ink on transcop on wood (1967-8)

