arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 23 May 2008 felix
Arts
Birth Machine Baby, ink on paper on wood (1967)
rent home) and of course in Gruyeres,
Switzerland (of cheese fame) which
is home to the Giger Museum. The
four-level building complex in the his-
toric, medieval walled city is the per-
manent home to many of the artist’s
most prominent works and also home
to one of the Giger Bars. The Gothic
architecture of the 400-year old space
is mirrored by the designs for the bar
with giant skeletal arches covering the
vaulted ceiling, stony furniture and a
“church-like” feature which contrast to
the interesting-looking, body jewellery
adorned bar staff.
One film work that truly pays hom-
age and does justice to Giger is David
N. Jahn’s H.R. Giger Revealed which
combines a documentary with a 3D
One view from inside the spectactular Giger bar in Gruyeres, Switzerland
animation of some of Giger’s work
(paintings, drawings and sculpture).
And Jahn certainly is in a position to
give an insider’s view on Giger, having
worked as his assistant for a number of
years (a position many thousands of art
students and fans alike would adore to
be in). The documentary seeks to illus-
trate just how magnificent Giger is as
an artist instead of providing an insight
into his history or personality. Giger’s
reluctance to give interviews nowadays
is due to the belief that he has said eve-
rything he has wanted to in undoubt-
edly countless previous interviews fol-
lowing his work on Alien, Species and
album covers including Debbie Harry
and ELP’s, and does not wish to repeat
himself. Certainly, Giger seems to be a
somewhat shy and reclusive character,
if not absent minded, still exuding per-
sonality. As often with genius, he has
the quirks and desire to exist basking
in and exploring the wonders of the
depths of his imagination. What Giger
possesses is the “HOW”, the technical
skill in realising the plot of the stories
his mind unfolds and the “WHAT”,
that is the imaginative power to create
such intricately detailed images.
However, this detailed surface textures
of his paintings in no way detract from
what it is he is presenting to us. The
sheer fact that Giger can propel one
into the abyss of our own imagina-
tion is something many artists lack,
although in the case of Giger’s works
one can be equally spellbound by aban-
doning that imagination and taking a
free ride on what we see before us.
One psychiatrist remarked that never
had he seem anyone who manages to
extract the experiences of the psyche
and portray them so amazingly, and it
is hard to disagree with him.
By watching Giger’s Art in Motion, one
begins a forty minute journey of awe
with the 3D animation of his art mar-
ried perfectly to sound effects and mu-
sic. The aural dimension mirrors the
obscurity, enhances and heightens the
experience edging the mind to go fur-
ther into the realms of fantasy. Ten of
Giger’s work are brought to life as the
camera scans over them, allowing the
viewer to appreciate in minute detail
things they might otherwise overlook
when presented with it as a static im-
age in a gallery or on paper. It begins
with Atomic Children, an ink drawing
completed in 1967 when the threat of
nuclear war inspired Giger to present
his idea of the potential horrors
and mutations to human beings. So
groundbreaking and previously unseen
was his work that it was reacted to with
shock. Yogurt tubs and dog excrement
were hurled at the showcases. What
those objectors were overlooking was
an attention to detail nothing short of
genius: the stuff of dreams, nightmares
and maybe even drug trips. The real in-
spiration for Giger’s creations were the
nightmares he had as a young boy and
his penchant for day dreaming. His will
to overcome his fear manifested itself
as the realisation, the “making real” of
his nightmares. His art will not appeal
to all, with many paintings being quite
sexually explicit in content. Here is a
man with a profound understanding
and interest in the human form. The
art does not come off as seedy, porno-
graphic or distasteful and is presented
in a rather matter-of-fact way. The
sexual content of the art pales in sig-
nificance next to their visual impact. A
personal favourite is Erotomechanics,
another example of where Giger’s con-
cept and attention to detail baffles. The
beings in his art seem preconceived as
if made my God Himself.
From looking at one work, Biomechan-
ical Landscape, it is clear where the in-
spiration for many subsequent films,
such as The Matrix, came from. He has
created the notion of the biomechani-
cal. We live in a world of technologi-
cal dependence and Giger illustrates
this in his work by conjuring a world
where the living have become part of
the mechanical world around them.
Other ‘snapshots’ from his works in the
film include phallic trains in New York
City, grey landscapes not dissimilar to
the Mine of Moria in Tolkein’s Lord of
the Rings, as well as a demonic, goat-
like creature surrounded by svelte,
snake-skinned beauties in his work,
The Spell. One recurring paradox in
so much of his work is, in a sense, the
“masculine” versus the “feminine”. On
one hand many images in his crea-
tions have a dark, aggressive, demonic,
cold and even satanic feel. Many of the
characters could be intimidating but
Giger depicts them in a still and se-
rene manner where they always look
at peace: horror so beautifully pre-
sented. It is the industrial, mechanical
and masculine versus the svelte, gold
and goddess-like beings. It truly is like
magic and it is no wonder that Giger
will appeal to so diverse an audience:
science fiction fans, fetishists, S&M
lovers, fans of heavy metal and even
the girly girls who dream of fairies and
nymphs. Some may accuse Giger of Sa-
tanism, given the dark nature of some
works, or a pervert because of the na-
ked forms and sexual connotations.
Although an interest in the occult, that
is, “the hidden”, could understandably
lead to people believing so, it has been
confirmed by many sources, including
Jahn, that Giger is no such Satanist. Or
pervert for that matter. Interestingly,
he was recently married to the director
of the Giger Museum in Gruyeres.
With so much emphasis often put upon
the “ulterior motive” of a piece of art in
a lot of modern art, it is a joy to merely
enjoy art for how it looks and for its
beauty. Even if, aesthetically, Giger
does not inspire something magical in
your mind, his pure technical skill will
dazzle you.
In the words of New York artist, Pet
Sylvia, “all we have to do is sit back and
enjoy the work.”
The Dark Island

