arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
20 Friday 23 May 2008
felix
Arts
It is an Evening of Wonders indeed
Mustapher Botchway experiences a night of suspended boxes, mind reading and twin gorillas
T
his guy/thing/alien/weir-
do needs no introduction,
for seeing his acts on the
television should tell you
he/it is something special.
Monday 12 May was the day a couple of
friends and I went to see Derren Brown
perform Mind Reader: An evening of
Wonders at the cosy Garrick theatre.
The aimless and farfetched postulating
of what subliminal messages Brown
could have planted on the tube and in
our newspapers was probably a signal
that we had let Brown mania consume
us even before the show started.
However, more intriguing was the
mysterious-looking box suspended in
mid air: More on that later. The show
started in great fashion, fooling sixty
percent of the audience within two
minutes. The phenomenon of Change
Blindness and not magic was used in
this instance. I shan’t bore you with the
details (it was a psychological study)
but the aforementioned sixty percent
could not notice a pair of table tennis
players exchange places with a couple
of gorillas. (‘Wiki’ it!) And all this be-
fore Brown had appeared. Good use of
forty pounds then.
The act itself was nothing short of
brilliant. More so, a refreshing retreat
towards the early Brown work, mental-
ism. I sense he is taking a break from
television, which he regards as “fatu-
ous” and “less fun”. Indeed one detects
this lack of passion in the second series
of Channel 4’s Trick or Treat. Like this
newspaper, the new series has flirted
on a more sensationalist approach,
with the ‘will she or will she not kill the
cute kitten’ and the upcoming ‘ambush’
episode highlighting such views. Nev-
ertheless it should still not be missed.
Without giving the act away, Brown
managed to ‘mind read’ the words six
people were thinking of. And no, they
were not ‘cat’, ‘dog’, ‘house’ or ‘mouse’.
The serial number of a ten pound note
was also ‘guessed’ by the father of one
of the audience. As could be expected,
another example of Change Blindness
was performed by Derren Brown and
his ‘twin gorilla’ before the interval,
fooling almost everyone this time.
One of Brown’s endearing qualities is
his scepticism of the paranormal. He
openly admits what he does are tricks
and he has not been bestowed with an
arsenal of abilities by Tom Cruise or
anybody else from Planet Glong. The
table turning exercise demonstrated
this view.
Having seen a multitude of his televi-
sion shows I have longed to become
the subject of one of his tricks, just so I
can use my alleged intelligent mind to
outwit him. In spite of this, it was my
friendwhoreceivedthisprivilege(mind
fuck). Before the interval Brown asked
for two hundred volunteers to submit
a personal question into an opaque en-
velope, with only their initials and seat
number on the visible side. This was in
preparation for Brown’s re-enactment
of a magnificent trick, first performed
in the 1920’s.
The customary embellishment and
convolution preceded the trick with
Brown wrapping himself in hospital
bandages to facilitate the seeing of the
audience’s words and not their faces,
as well as the disregarding of about one
hundred and eighty envelopes as the
feel of their handwritten initials was
not ‘right’. He correctly guessed that a
nineteen year old woman had suffered
an alcohol-induced kidney infection
after a heavy night out drinking (on a
Wednesday, in dB’s perhaps?). Anoth-
er answer to one of the two hundred
questions was that a forty three year
old man had once had his ear almost
torn off by a fishing line. More fasci-
nating was that Brown had correctly
predicted the same guy had recently
arrived back in the UK from a flight.
This was not in the envelope.
To further convolve the trick he asked
the audience, whilst still covered in
bandages, to think of a fact about
them and ‘aim’ them towards his chest.
Brown then asked a twenty year old
male sitting in the dress circle to stand
up. The sudden rush of blood to my
head subsided when this guy’s name
had to begin with the letter A. My
friend, engrossed in aiming his fact
towards Brown’s chest had not noticed
that he fitted this profile prior to my
D to the erren Brown himself. Legend polite nudge. The trick continued after
another member of the audience from
the dress circle was identified. Brown,
amazingly or not, predicted that they
both had a pet; that both pet’s names
began with ‘sh’; that the pets were a
cat and a dog. Finally, and extraordi-
narily, he had correctly identified that
the cat and dog were called Shelley and
Shadow respectively. I will leave you to
guess which donut decided to call their
dog after an optical phenomenon.
This left my friends and me awestruck,
to the applause of the rest of the audi-
ence. This ended the show. Now the
box suspended in mid-air. Brown per-
formed yet another trick in the encore
to select the ‘most psychic’ member of
the audience. The lady then opened the
box and revealed a scroll with a collec-
tion of words, apparently written by
Brown forty five minutes prior to the
show. The words included some of the
words that the six people had thought
of, and other notable words and ob-
jects from the show. Extraordinarily,
completing the scroll were the words
‘lady, long blond hair, grey trousers’.
Indeed this was a fitting description of
the lady holding the scroll. And on that
note we were shown the door.
The show was astounding and for the
three days following it, my revision
had ceased and my mind was focussed
on working out how each astonishing
trick was performed.
Indeed I seem to have deciphered most
of the tricks, but it is still a privilege to
watch this guy use ‘magic, suggestion,
psychology, misdirection and show-
manship’ to perform his tricks in real
life. I certainly was one of the 100% of
people who were eventually fooled in
his show.
At forty odd pounds for the best seats,
it is not cheap. However, the Garrick is
a relatively small theatre and I envis-
age those paying £30 for upper circle
seats not suffering a great deal. It is
definitely value for money as the two
hour performance is full of tricks, au-
dience participation, flashes of comedy
and is definitely more captivating than
watching him on TV.
A selection of Derren Brown’s portraits. For the extra-keen, you can buy prints from his website
Derren doesn’t just come in disturbing monochromatic shades, honest

