arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 23 May 2008 felix
Arts
That Face: aka Why Alcohol is Bad
Lucy Harrold discovers that too short a play results in excessive alcohol consumption and an almighty
hangover to match. Somehow though, she managed to overcome any memory loss and write us this review
T
his was my second visit to
the Duke of York’s theatre
since I have started writ-
ing for Felix, the first being
to see the ill-fated “Rent
Remixed”, and it appears they have not
done much to the theatre since then as
even the set seemed very familiar. Af-
ter having to run to the theatre to get
there in time, due to an uncooperative
tube, I just had time to flick through
the program to find that a) the friend
I was with had seen Lindsay Duncan
(Martha) on stage before and b) Han-
nah Murray (Mia) was the anorexic
one in Skins.
That Face was originally performed
at the Royal Court, Sloane Square, one
of the forerunners for original play-
wrights. It has helped to develop pieces
such as East is East and Shopping and
Fucking and has gained much acclaim
in nurturing new talent. The talent in
this case is Polly Stenham. That Face is
Stenham’s debut play and an incredible
debut at that, a remarkable feat given
that she was only nineteen when she
wrote it (I only found this out whilst
writing this review and am now thor-
oughly depressed as I’m nineteen and
all I’ve got to show for my life is a rath-
er large debt). After its well-received
premiere at the Royal Court Upstairs
last year, That Face has now arrived at
the Duke of York’s theatre with a bang:
or perhaps a loud guitar riff would be
more fitting.
Many plays I have seen have a ten-
dency to be wimpish about informing
you of the actual plot - not here. The
first scene is the catalyst for everything
else you are about to see. We are taken
to a private school-girl’s dorm where a
balaclava-wearing girl is being given
her “initiation”. However, we never see
the initiation as she has been drugged
with valium and is hence unconscious.
What makes this worse is that she has
been drugged by an incompetent fif-
teen year old. We learn that this fifteen
year old is Mia (Hannah Murray), the
daughter of Martha (Lindsay Duncan)
an incompetent drunk/pill pusher
who is being provided for by her son
Henry (Matt Smith). Henry is trying to
keep his family together and also keep
their life a secret from his father Hugh
(Julian Wadham) who is with his sec-
ond wife in Hong Kong. The first two
scenes showed the contrast between
the lives of mother and daughter. Mia’s
boarding school life is orderly, even
bordering on the military with Izzy, her
house leader, as sergeant, in contrast to
her mother’s tiny trashed house strewn
with wine bottles and books. The whole
situation is real life turned on its head,
Henry acts as both mother and father
to Mia and Martha, Martha being the
uncooperative stubborn teenager and
Hugh the prodigal son.
As the play progresses we see the ef-
fects that Mia’s impending expulsion
from school has on the family: every-
one except Martha who does not seem
to care on account of being drunk.
Stenham ensures that each character
treats the situation in a way that be-
lies them - Mia does not think it’s a
problem, Henry nearly falls apart and
Hugh just throws money at the prob-
lem. Throughout this Martha appears
to be in her own world where it is just
she and Henry, who she treats as both
a young boy and a soldier although he
is an eighteen year old art student. The
situation comes to a head in the final
scene where (for once) the storyline
is actually resolved (I won’t say how,
you’ll have to see the play for yourself).
In my experience this is a rare but good
thing for a play to do; having paid to
see a play, it is nice not to have to make
up the ending myself. The play moved
at such a pace that I had no time to look
at my programme (something I usually
do when bored) and so I expected I
would have time to do that during the
interval. But by the last scene as all the
ends were being tied up and there was
nowhere else for the play to go I got a
bit suspicious. When the cast came out
for their bows I realised there was no
interval, thus proving that Wikipedia
is wrong, as it claimed the play was in
two parts. Oh well, at least it meant I
couldn’t waste my money on wanky ice
cream.
I thought That Face was an incredibly
intelligent and astute look at a family
in turmoil, Stenham’s writing was fresh
and up-to-date without losing the clas-
sic feel of a West End play. Her obser-
vations of life as a teenager were witty
and shrewd, obviously it helps that she
was still one herself whilst writing it.
Although I have never been faced with
the problems addressed by the play I
felt that the writing was realistic and I
could understand and sympathise with
all the characters and their emotions.
Of course this could not have been
achieved without the efforts of the di-
rector and the actors.
Jeremy Herrin’s use of the space (the
Duke of York’s is a rather more square
space than the deeper and narrow
one that you would want) was really
inventive, storing the main bed set at
the back so that you are constantly re-
minded of the state of Martha’s world
and the looming chaos and having the
bed slide down the set as if being thrust
back into the audience’s mind. I also
loved his scene transitions, as the set
was very minimalistic with no back-
grounds as such and everything hap-
pening in this white space. The charac-
ters from the last scene would stay in a
slight blackout as if observing the next
characters’ lives. The next characters
would bring on the scenery for their
scene, as though bringing their emo-
tional baggage with them.
The quality of acting was astounding
(or as I put in a text to a friend after-
wards “IT WAS FUCKING AMAZ-
ING!!!”). The only weak link I found
to be Hannah Murray, she seemed
Hannah Murray. Yes, the anorexic one in Skins. Also known as Cassie
at times to not quite understand her
character’s motivation for her actions
almost saying the lines but not taking
in their meaning. I think this will come
with time and as she plays the role
more will become more confident and
more aware of herself as the character
of Mia. Someone I haven’t mentioned
yet is Catherine Steadman as Izzy, the
school bully and posh totty. Although
this is only a small part she stole every
scene she was in as this nonchalant,
selfish bitch who only cared about
getting out of trouble and getting laid
(both of which she achieves). Lindsay
Duncan, as expected, was outstanding
as the out-of-her-head Martha. She
made her character loveable despite
what she had done to her family but
could turn her emotions at any point
just as a real drunk would. Her rela-
tionship with Henry varied from abso-
lute adoration to sheer hatred and in a
pseudo-sexual Freudian relationship,
Martha gives Henry a lovebite in an
attempt to mark him as her territory.
Look out for her “conversation” with
the talking clock - absolute genius! The
individual that stood out most for me
was Matt Smith as Henry. At first I was
not too sure about him - his accent
was funny in a stuck-up posh way and
I could not work out why he seemed
to be acting like a small child. This was
all part of the character playing up to
his mother to keep her reality alive. As
the play progressed Smith’s character
struggles to hold his family together
until he finally snaps. The final scene
was harrowing and heartbreaking as
Henry loses it whilst dressed in his
mother’s nightgown and pearls. Smith
made his pain accessible to the audi-
ence, opening himself up completely.
I was truly disturbed by his transition
from normal teenager to a character
more like his mother.
That Face is a genuine, freakish
look at modern family life and essen-
tial viewing for anyone who likes to
drink lots of alcohol or know some-
one who does. It’s a harrowing tale
of what alcohol can to do to you and
those around you; ultimately it is not
the drunk whose life is ruined but the
people who care for them. That Face is
an extraordinarily powerful play and is
definitely worth a visit to before it ends
on 5th July, tickets start at £10 with
the Royal Court offering an allocation
of top price tickets for £25 if you book
through their box office. Plus we were
out by nine leaving plenty of time to do
lots of *cough* revision.
For more information about the
play and how to get tickets, log
onto www.dukeofyorkstheatre.
co.uk
The alcoholic Martha, played by Lindsay Duncan

