22 felix Friday 23 May 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Culture Crawl
Kew Gardens
Officially named the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew, this is the Holy Grail for any plant lovers, botanists or bi-
ologists. Set along the Thames, it is home to a huge range of flora in and out of doors. The formal garden setting
provides an aesthetically pleasing and botanically organised way of displaying such beautiful plant life. The houses,
such as the Lily, Palm, and Temporate Houses, are architectural delights unto themselves and contribute to the
features of note at Kew. The gardens include Japanese, rose, knot and rock varieties and there are other features
such as the introduction of limited and temporary areas of farm crops to illustrate farm ecosystems.
Anyone who has lost the will or ability to perambulate can jump on the Kew Explorer, a small road train which
comes at an additional cost. Unfortunately there is an entry fee to pay. However, the Old Deer Park at Richmond
borders the Gardens which makes for a more relaxed and economical alternative, where beachwear and Frisbees
are more appropriate.
Holland Park
Although it may be the Royal Borough’s largest, it is one of the smallest public parks in London
as a whole. Taking its name from Sir Henry, Earl of Holland, the park is essentially the grounds
of Holland House which was occupied by Cromwell’s Parliamentarian army during the Civil War
(1642-1651). What is left of the house after bombing during WWII is now a youth hostel and
also houses temporary exhibitions. For those not content merely basking in the May sunshine or
strolling around the formal and informal gardens and woodlands, there are tennis courts, cricket
nets, a golf bunker, netball and football courts. The park is home to the Kyoto Japan Garden, an
eco garden, which was developed for the 1991 London Festival of Japan. What better way to woo
a loved one then by meandering through the rose gardens as the peacocks only add to the beauty
of your surroundings. Alternatively you can gate crash the adventure playground!
During the summer one can return to Holland Park in the evening for a wide range of operatic and
dramatic events. If you go along please do send us a review!
Hampstead Heath
The infamous playground of the rich and famous, this is another north London offering with superb views over
London which some of the more central and southern parks do not have. The heath is made up of hilly terrains
as well as bogs, streams and ancient woodlands which were saved from development by residents during the
19th Century. The heath boasts the largest variety of wildlife of any other London open space and this is due
to its more rustic and “untouched” feel as a result of the absence of tarmac roads, signs and formal plantings,
although there are increasing signs of modernisation such as the possibility of installing CCTV. One hopes that
notion will be abandoned like the move to ban the swimming in the ponds. Thankfully, swimming is still al-
lowed and so strip off and cool off if you don’t mind a bit of mud and dirt! The heath spans Highgate in the east
and Parliament hill in the south east. This location is perfect for those missing their more rural home settings
or for those in need of escape from the South Kensington bubble.
Chapter Ten – Pretty Parks in London

