arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 23 May 2008 felix
Arts
Alexandra Park
The best way to enjoy this park is as the sun rises on a spring morning. The views from this park over
London are exquisite and breathtaking and on a clear day all the taller features (Gherkin etc) of central
London are visible. The park itself is stunning and as well as being the home of several types of exotic trees
it contains the Grove Garden and the Rose Garden which looks southeast over London. The main attrac-
tion of the park is technically Alexandra Palace, more commonly known as Ally Pally. This is named for
Princess (and later Queen) Alexandra of Denmark who married one of our Princes, Edward, and not for
the architect who designed the palace: Alexander Mackenzie. It was built as a “pleasure ground” with paid
entry, housing some of the World Fairs, and today still serves that function in the form of exhibitions and
a wide range of music events.
The park is accessible via Wood green tube with the need for a bus journey too. However, for the more
energetically minded and bodied, Alexandra Park can be reached on foot from Finsbury Park via the High-
gate Woods.
St James’ Park
The park was first acquired by Henry VIII but has undergone many landscape changes since
that time. John Nash, of Regent’s Park fame, helped in the process of landscaping which in-
cluded the addition of the lake and scenic paths throughout the park. If Hampstead Heath is a
little far to soak up some rustic flavour then St James’ offers a more central location for some
rural scenery if the right spot is found. Leafy plane trees inhabit the park and pelicans can be
spotted lakeside. Situated to the east, St James’ is a perfect green getaway after fumes of Pica-
dilly Circus and if Green Park is heaving a bit too much with tourists and locals alike.
Regent’s Park
Regent’s park was an enclosed royal estate and hunting ground until 1835 but it was in 1811 that
George IV commissioned John Nash to reinvent the park which included the addition of terraces of
fine houses on the east side, and the Grand Union Canal which flows along the north of the park.
Regent’s park is another immensely beautiful green addition to a city that has always been an urban
jungle and comes as welcome relief, breaking up the mayhem that would otherwise ensue between
Marylebone and Camden Town. The location is perfect if one is out doing touristy things such
as Madame Tussaud’s, the Planetarium or going for a more “alternative” alternative in Mecca (i.e.
Camden). The park is home to our city’s Zoo as well as the Queen Mary Rose garden that boasts at
least 400 rose varieties (another great opportunity for romantic ramblings). The boating lake, monu-
ments and tree-lined walks are some of the things that await you here.
Kensington Gardens
Everyone at Imperial will be familiar with these beautiful gardens. Home to the
Albert Memorial, in all its halcyon glory, the gardens are a welcome relief from
their slightly more “mainstream” older sister, Hyde Park. The gardens have
their own cultural offering in the form of the Serpentine art gallery and Ken-
sington Palace - occasionally frequented by the Royal family. It contains two
attractive water features, including the Italian water garden (commissioned by
Queen Victoria) and lake, with deck chairs next to the lake. The presence of
tiny green vans provide cool refreshment within easy walking distance of your
chosen spot and a restaurant on the Lancaster Gate side of the park will pro-
vide something heartier. These gardens are a personal favorite of mine for their
tranquility and beauty and the animals certainly seem to think so as the park is
home to considerably more wildlife than Hyde Park. Playground crashing op-
portunity also exists here.
Written by Caz Knight, designed by Rosie Grayburn
Next time...
Is there a particular guide you’d like? An area of London you’d like covered? Get in touch
with us and tell us what you want to read – arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk

