music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 23 May 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair and Susan Yu
Susan Yu
Music Editor
Cutting edge music maestros
Peter Sinclair gets cosy with indie-electro group Cut/Copy, finds out about their new
album, where they see themselves in the future and interviews them in the process
A
nother week of hard work
at the office. It’s a shame
that the sun has ducked
away, leaving everybody
bereft of her benevo-
lence and sweet charms. You know
what, who cares if the sun ain’t shining
no more, because at the end of the day,
we are talking about the British weath-
er and when it comes to this, there are
no surprises in store for any of us here.
At the back of my mind, I’m thinking,
hang on a minute, we still have f***ing
immense music to console ourselves
with. All is not lost. All is not lost.
Two weeks ago, I had the pleasure of
attending Moby’s new album launch
party at club Indig02 inside the O2
Arena. Moby performed a smashing DJ
set, with guests Mylo and Trentemoller
brandishing their DJ dexterities along-
side the master of electronics. With
‘Last Night,’ Moby grants us dance
floor killers; some would say he’s back
with a vengeance, others are not so
sure, this being the general consensus
amongst the critics. For me personally,
I have to admit, I do prefer his old stuff,
with ‘Play,’ his sixth studio album still
standing strong as an unforgettable
sensation. ‘Last Night’ does however
offer us with a range of timeless tracks,
from rave anthems, old school, cosmic
disco-pop, hip-hop, underground to
down-beat chiller ambience. You cer-
tainly can’t say that Moby doesn’t like
to spice things up somewhat. Seem-
ingly, ‘Last Night’ is a dance music tour
de force to be reckoned with.
This week, there is an interview with
Cut/Copy who are prominent in the
elctro-indie scene, as well as a catch-up
with Ty at Jazz Cafe and many singles
that need your undying attention!
We got a mountain of CDs sent to
us over the holidays, and there’s
always gigs that need going to. If
you fancy getting some free stuff,
give us an email at music.felix@
gmail.com
T
his trio from Melbourne,
Australia, are known for
their dance/electropop,
taking influences from
post punk genres as well
as 80s new wave. A few weeks ago, Fe-
lix spoke to drummer Mitchell Scott to
find out a little about what makes these
fellows cuting edge talent.
You’ve got the full album ‘In
Ghost Colours’ on your MySpace
page. Why did you decide to do
that?
I think that was actually something our
label did. For us, we just want people to
here the music really so it’s good as far
as we’re concerned. I think it doesn’t
stay up there for ever, maybe it’s up for
a couple of weeks around the release
date of the record and then it’s pulled
back down to the regular number of
songs. But the label doesn’t mind, and
if they don’t care, we don’t care.
What are the main differences
between the new album ‘In Ghost
Colours’ and your debut ‘Bright
Like Neon Love’?
We just kept doing what we’re doing
really. It’s been a little while since our
last record so maybe our tastes have
changed and we might have been sub-
tly influenced.
I guess one of the main things though
is that we had more time to spend in
the studio working on the record so it’s
probably a little more developed in that
sense. And we’ve also come a long way
in how we play music in that we’d nev-
er been a band before the last record.
It was all totally new to us really – we
barely knew how to play our instru-
ments – so maybe we’ve come along in
that sense as well. With the first record,
we only had half a day in the studio to
record the live elements, and there was
also some dodgy bedroom recording.
This time we had about six weeks in
the studio.
What kind of music were you lis-
tening to when you were writing
the album?
Loads of stuff, I mean you have your
old favourites that you always come
back to. I guess this time there was a bit
more psychedelic electronic stuff, like
Tangerine Dream, Krautrock, things
like that. Things like Animal Collec-
tive, Sleepy Jackson.
How have you seen the ‘Indie
Electro’ scene progress since the
release of your debut?
It’s definitely come along like crazy.
When we made that record there
wasn’t really a scene for what we were
doing at all. Our first record sold noth-
ing much, although gradually people
became aware of it and started coming
to our shows. But this album debuted
at number one, so there’s a pretty large
difference. The scene’s grown to a huge
extent.
Where do you see it going in the
future?
There’s a lot of different ways you can
go with it. We’ve gone for a bit more
of a live, more guitar-driven direction,
but there’s other bands doing really
well who are going in a much more
dance floor friendly direction.
I don’t know, it’s hard to say – a
scene is usually made up of people
who aren’t really conscious of being
part of a scene. Ideally it’s just a lot of
people doing their own thing which
gets lumped together to a certain ex-
tent. But for us, we just try to not be
too conscious about what’s going on
around us and just try and make music
which we care about.
What kind of bands are there
around at the moment that you’re
listening to?
There’s always quite a bit of stuff.
We’re going on tour with Black Kids,
I think they’re quite cool. The Presets
have just got a new record out. Lady-
hawk, Joakim who just did a remix for
us, Nightlife. It’s just across the board, I
like a pretty broad range of music.
Are you playing at any festivals
this year?
Yeah, definitely. I’m not sure which
ones. We’re looking at all the offers and
locking them in at the moment, but we
don’t actually know which ones we’re
playing at. People have been saying to
us “Oh, I see you’re playing at this fes-
tival later in the year” and we actually…
don’t know. We’re definitely going to
be playing at some summer festivals
though, I can’t wait to get back to that.
How do you find your music is
received at festivals as opposed
to clubs or smaller venues?
It can be really good, there’s a lot of en-
ergy at festivals. People are there with
a definite aim to enjoy themselves so
we can often get the crowd involved.
When that happens it’s really cool.
There’s a different kind of vibe at fes-
tivals – you’re playing to people who
might not necessarily come to your
own show. It’s a large new audience,
and it’s often there that people find out
about new music. People who go to see
you might not have heard your music
before, or they might have just heard
a song on the radio, so they may not
be people who’d like to hear some ob-
scure track from your back catalogue.
We’d probably play some of our better
known stuff or more recent stuff.
It took you a while to find a pro-
ducer for the new album, eventu-
ally settling on Tim Goldsworthy.
What was it about him that made
you want to work with him?
We’ve got a very healthy respect for
PSA and pretty much everything
they’ve done. More recently they’ve
been taking their remixes and produc-
tion and putting a more psychedelic
bent on things, and Tim’s good at that
as well. He’s drawn out like ten minute
cosmic synth epics, we really liked
everything that he had his hands in up
until now. Having conversations with
him, he really seemed to get where the
music was coming from. He could pull
out the key references and was bang on
with everything he had to say about the
record – where it’s coming from and
some of the things he though he could
do with it. Getting over there and get-
ting on with the process, we became
even more happy with the decision. We
have a really good working relationship
with him. A surprising fun fact is that
he dropped out of high school to follow
around My Bloody Valentine on tour,
so he really took to a lot of the guitar
driven songs which was not what we
expected, we though he would be more
into the disco dancey stuff as opposed
to the guitar songs.
Cut/Copy all adorning copycat smug expressions... could they be clones of one another?
This photo was taken moments before some gnarly dude grinded the
phat rail on the right taking the young man’s head clean off

