news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 23 May 2008 felix
News
Smokers: Class B won’t change us
Felix surveys student body: 1 in 5 IC students smoke cannabis, 57% feel the reclassification is a bad idea
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
The government’s recent reversal to
reclassify cannabis as a class B drug
will have minimal to no effect on ex-
isting users’ smoking habits; that’s ac-
cording to a survey carried out by Felix
this week. When asked: “Will the gov-
ernment’s reclassification of cannabis
from a class C to a class B drug change
your smoking habits?” 25 out of 26 IC
cannabis smokers answered “No” and
that they will continue as usual.
Felix conducted the survey this week
following the Home Secretary, Jacqui
Smith’s recent decision to strengthen
laws on cannabis use, despite a gov-
ernment commissioned report recom-
mending: “Cannabis should remain a
Class C drug.” The report, which was
published in April and written by the
Advisory Council on Misuse of Drugs
(ACMD), should never have been com-
missioned in the first place according
to committee member Professor David
Nutt. The influential ACMD member
told Felix in an exclusive interview: “I
do not think that the review was neces-
sary … But if asked to review, we have
to review.”
Jacqui Smith authorised production
of the report last July, in a bid to reverse
Tony Blair’s downgrading of cannabis
to a Class C drug in 2004. The down-
grading was intended to cut police
time spent enforcing cannabis laws.
Since then, worries about the effects
cannabis has on users’ mental health
have caused the Home Secretary to
call for the drug’s reclassification. In
particular, Ms Smith is concerned that
a much stronger variety of the drug,
namely skunk, is dominating the can-
nabis market.
Seemingly, the government was set
on reclassifying the drug and in May of
this year, when the ACMD published
its review stating: “Cannabis more
closely equates with other Class C sub-
stances,” Ms Smith chose to ignore the
advice. Cannabis is now set to return
to Class B status in early 2009.
Earlier this week, Felix surveyed 143
members of the student body to find
out how the reclassification would af-
fect current cannabis users; whether
students think the reclassification is
a good idea; and whether cannabis
should be illegal.
The 26 smokers were almost unani-
mous in their comments, with 98%
stating that they would continue us-
ing cannabis in 2009, raising serious
doubts about the effectiveness of the
government’s latest policy. Recent
comments from the Association of
Chief Police Officers (ACPO) have
also undermined the government’s
intentions. The ACPO said it will con-
tinue to police personal cannabis use
with the same tactics employed since
the drug was downgraded. “Should the
decision be taken to reclassify canna-
bis to Class B,” an ACPO spokesperson
stated in early May, “ACPO believes
[police should] retain flexibility in deal-
ing with instances of possession on the
street, including the discretion to issue
warnings,” rather than to arrest.
The student body was split on can-
nabis’ status, with a slight majority
favouring the drug’s legalisation. 57%
of students surveyed felt that the re-
classification is a bad idea, whilst 54%
felt that cannabis shouldn’t be illegal at
all. Many referenced the Netherland’s
more relaxed stance on cannabis use,
believing the UK should follow suit.
“All drugs should be legal,” commented
one liberal student, “it’s my body and
I should be allowed to do what I want
to it.”
Yet, for every argument against
cannabis’ reclassification, there were
almost as many opposing views. “It
wasn’t enforced properly as a C drug,”
asserted one anti-cannabis student. “If
it’s going to be illegal, then do it prop-
erly.” Whereas another put it simply:
“drugs are bad, mm’kay.”
According to the survey, approxi-
mately 1 in 5 (18%) Imperial students
smoke cannabis. This comes in lower
than the national average of 27% for 18
to 24 year olds, found in 2004. If these
students are caught with cannabis on
College property, Imperial will resort
to its ‘Zero Tolerance’ policy on drugs
use. Students face eviction if found
taking drugs into halls, and in more se-
vere cases they can be forced to leave
university.
Nationally, they currently face up
to two years in prison for possession,
however, after 2009 the maximum jail
sentence will increase to five years.
That’s if the police force actually em-
braces the government’s changes; in
reality, they could simply face a tick-
ing-off and be sent on their intoxicated
way.
For the full interview with the
Advisory Council on Misuse
of Drugs committee member,
Professor David Nutt, turn to
page 4. For comment on the
reclassification of cannabis, turn
to page 8
Our survey says...
Do you smoke cannabis?
No:
72%
Yes:
18%
Will your smoking habits
change with the reclassification
of cannabis to a Class B drug?*
Did you know cannabis is being
reclassified to a Class B drug?
Do you think it is a good idea to
reclassify cannabis as Class B?
Do you think it should be
illegal to smoke cannabis?
43%
57%
36%
64%
98%
2%
54% 46%
Felix surveyed 143 people in
the Junior Common Room, the
Union and the Sir Alexander
Fleming Building dining area
during two lunchtimes.
*26 cannabis smokers were
asked this question
Our students say...
“There’s better stuff to do with police time than arrest cannabis
users, like stopping people get stabbed!”
“Any drug use is most definitely wrong.”
“The entire classification system is flawed: many surveys say it’s
less dangerous than alcohol.”
“With the reclassification to Class B, there’s more incentive for
dealers to use crazy ingredients in cannabis and thus it will be more
damaging to society.”
“There’s definitely no harm in making it illegal, but if it is legalised,
I’m not so sure.”
“It should be illegal along with alcohol because they’re both a
detriment to society.”
“People need to be told not to smoke cannabis; they don’t need to
be put in jail though.”
“I think it’s become a Class B drug again not because of its health
risks, but because of its prolificacy.”
“Prohibition doesn’t work. It didn’t work with alcohol. You’re just
putting cannabis in the control of gangs if you make it illegal.”
“It’s useful in a medical context, but I don’t think it should be on the
streets where you don’t know what you’re getting.”
“It’s a blanket change to deal with those smoking skunk.”
“In Holland, it impresses no one if you smoke a spliff. Once you
reach an age, you should be responsible for your own actions.”
“Drugs are bad, mm’kay.”
1 in 5, or 18% of Imperial students smoke cannabis, compared to a national average of 27% for people aged between 18 and 24 years old
Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith, who went against advice from the
ACMD. In early 2009, Cannabis will once again be a Class B drug

