felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Beer, meat, hockey
Champions League final... Game of four halves?
Mustapher Botchway
Incoming Sports Editor
L
uckily, the sports pages have
actually been filled for now,
however I must admit it has
come at a price. To those
teams that I have held back
articles, I’m sorry, but if I hadn’t have
done that, we would have had one issue
with about six pages and then nothing
for the following three weeks. I hope
that those clubs to whom I did this
understand and to those that still have
matches going, send us in an article, let
us know how your season is going!
With the end of the academic year
fastly approaching, clubs and societies
have been sorting out their handover
for next year. Well here at Felix we are
doing the same and we’ve managed
to find two people to take over the
sports section for next year, Musta-
pher Botchway and Jack Cornish. The
success of the sports pages will only
continue with the support of the clubs
and societies, something which was
evident this year and will hopefully
continue into next year.
Finally, work is underway for the
Felix Sport annual awards! Prizes will
be available for the best of the best,
but your help is needed. Do you know
anyone who you think is a true sports-
man, or a true socialite. Is there a club
or team deserve special recognition off
the field? Let us know at sport.felix@
imperial.ac.uk and send in any pic-
tures you may deem suitable for the
occasion. More information will be
available next week and the results will
be announced in the last issue of term.
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
Hockey club report on their President’s Day, see page 31
Beit Quad was packed with over 1,000 fans watching the final
The first all English final certainly dis-
appointed those who thought the game
would be drab, defensive and cagey.
The personalities of both teams were
evident in the days leading up to the tie.
Chelsea, much like their playing style,
were regimented, serious and studi-
ous. However it was their nervousness
which was predominant. Manchester
United were playful, relaxed and com-
fortable, probably because they have
previously been to the final.
The teams were evenly matched,
with Chelsea having a slight advan-
tage with their recent form. United
had stumbled in run up to the climax
of the Premier League and Chelsea had
done their best to capitalise on this, to
no avail.
Pleasantries from both managers
were exchanged and the stage was set.
Tacky Olympic-esque opening cer-
emony aside, the spectacle began.
Both teams started off nervously
with early long ball strategies deployed
to test the quality of the reported crap
pitch. Luboš Michĕl stamped his au-
thority with frequent stoppages in play
for feeble tackles. We were in Europe
and not England of course.
The first half was dominated by
United with Ferdinand and Vidic keep-
ing out the dangerous Drogba and
Ronaldo causing Chelsea stalwart, Es-
sien problems. Scholes and Makelele
clashed heads in the twentieth minute
leaving both players with a booking
and Scholes a broken nose. Ronaldo
silenced his critics six minutes later by
scoring in a big game. A slick one-two
by Scholes lead Wes Brown to deliver
a cross in which Ronaldo escaped Es-
sien to head past Petr Cech. After a
masterclass in goalkeeping from both
sides producing fine reaction saves
Chelsea drew level. Lampard caught
on the end of a deflected Essien shot
and sloted home past Van der Sar after
he slipped.
This gave Chelsea confidence and
they were by far the dominant team
in the second half. Essien and Ballack
foiled half chances after a good spell of
possession by the Blues. United were
almost silenced further with twelve
minutes to go when Drogba superbly
spun and unleashed a Kraken off the
post.
United hung on and forced the game
into it’s third half. After excellent but
unconverted chances from Lamp-
ard and Evra, the game went into the
fourth half unchanged. This was large-
ly uneventful except for Drogba get-
ting sent off for slapping a brick wall. A
disappointing end to his rumoured last
game for Chelsea.
A penalty shoot-out was to decide
the winner for the fourth time in seven
years. Champions League top scorer
Ronaldo almost suffered “the worst
day of his life” after he could not help
aiming his shot at the scientifically
enhanced fluorescent orange jersey of
Cech. But that title went to John Terry
after he slipped, sending his penalty off
the bar. Hero Van der Sar saved Anel-
ka’s penalty and the rest as they say...
Credit has to go to the Union for in-
stalling the big screen in the quad, ena-
bling over 1000 fans to enjoy this spec-
tacle without the discomfort of having
to share stools, sweat or snakebite with
three other people.
Manchester United continue their
quest for football domination in the
FIFA Club World Cup in December.

