politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
4 felix Friday 23 May 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – Li-Teck Lau and Kadhim Shubber
Cannabis review: “not necessary”
Chair of the Technical Committee of the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs and Professor of
psycho-pharmacology David Nutt speaks to James Goldsack, sharing his views on the reclassification
I
n July 2007, Home Secretary Jac-
qui Smith called for a review of
the classification of cannabis, at
the time a Class C substance, in
part because of public concern
but also due to the increased use of a
stronger form of cannabis, skunk.
The review, undertaken by the Advi-
sory Council on the Misuse of Drugs
(ACMD), was published last month
and recommended that cannabis re-
main Class C. In the face of this recom-
mendation, Jacqui Smith has decided
to push for a reclassification, moving
the drug up to B.
Shortly after this decision was made,
I met with Professor David Nutt, a psy-
cho-pharmacologist at Bristol Univer-
sity and Chair of the Technical Com-
mittee of the ACMD, to find out more
about the decision, drug culture and
the classification system.
What is your position on the
ACMD?
I am one of 3 psychiatrists on the Coun-
cil and I think I have been a member of
the Council for about 8 years now. I am
a psycho-pharmacologist and my main
research is into addiction and anxi-
ety disorders. As I know about drugs
and the brain I am the chair of what is
called the Technical Committee that
does the technical assessment of drugs
and tries to understand their risks
and harms. The Technical Commit-
tee comprises some technical experts
from the Council, all with a scientific
or technical background. The Com-
mittee did not do a separate analysis
of cannabis this time. It did before for
an important paper published in the
Lancet journal last year which was the
output of many years as-
sessment by the Tech-
nical Committee on
the harms of drugs.
Were you a
member
when cannabis was declassified?
At that time were you for the
declassification?
Yes that is right. I cannot speak for the
council but I can tell you this: the first
decision was unanimous, in 2004 there
was 1 dissenter and in 2008 there were
3 dissenters. The Council is 31 people
so you can see the proportion. Yes, I
believe cannabis should be Class C, al-
ways have and have always agreed with
the council.
Why was there a review into the
classification of cannabis and was
it necessary?
Well, the beginning of the report refers
to a letter from the Home Secretary
saying why she wants it reviewed. The
key issue, what people worry about, as
far as I understand is that cannabis is
now mostly skunk, and skunk is dif-
ferent from resin. However, is it pos-
sible that skunk is more dangerous
than resin? Is it going to cause more
problems in the long term? That is why
people are more anxious because the
concentration of tetrahydrocannabi-
nol (THC) has gone up probably 2 to 3
fold on average of what people are pur-
chasing in the past 15 years. We don’t
know if that changes how much people
take, whether they get more THC in
their blood or not. The main concern
is that stronger skunk might be leading
to more problems. There is a slightly
odd thing about cannabidiol (CBD). It
may be a red herring but CBD is an-
other constituent of resin which is not
present in skunk. Some people think
that it is anti-psychotic so the theory is
when you take forms of cannabis other
than skunk, the THC and CBD work
against each other. It’s just a theory,
there’s no strong evidence. So some
people think that is why skunk is more
likely to make you psychotic. However,
this time I do not think the review was
necessary; the evidence of new
harm isn’t based upon very
much.
Based upon the evidence
you have seen, what is the
public’s view?
It was somewhat disingenuous of
the home secretary to say that the
majority of the public surveyed by
the ACMD were in favour of class B
as she did not say 80% wanted
2 year or less penalties with
27% wanting no penalty!
There’s a mismatch and I think this is
a really important point – the public
don’t want to penalise people for using
cannabis but they do want to warn and
scare people off it. I actually think, to
be honest, that the government don’t
actually know what they are going to
do about punishments. They seem to
want Class “B” as a scare tactic but it is
ridiculous that people could face being
in prison for 5 years for possession of a
single joint. What would be the point?
Prison is hugely expensive and I don’t
think the majority of the parents who
are against cannabis actually want their
kids locked up. Probably about a half
of the younger population have used it.
Many people use it regularly and they
argue, why should it be ille-
gal anyway?
Cannabis is
a health is-
sue, not a legal
issue.
Is there any reason to
scare people off cannabis
more than other Class C drugs?
You will have to ask the
Home Secretary! I pre-
sume there is a feeling
that some people are harmed; some
drop out of university, some become
psychotic, a few might become schizo-
phrenic. There are harms associated
with cannabis use, that’s true. The
question is whether they’re sufficient to
make it Class B. We didn’t think so be-
cause although the harms are well rec-
ognised, they’re relatively rare. So you
risk criminalising a lot of people more
severely to protect a few who might
come to harm. As well as that, I don’t
think there’s any evidence to show that
the popularity of a drug depends upon
the class. Ecstasy is Class A yet lots
of people use it. The question is, why
doesn’t class change people’s attitudes?
One of the arguments we have always
been pursuing is that if the anomalies
of classification are taken out, maybe
people would take notice. That is what
we are trying to push towards, a proper
evidence-based classification.
So should the classification crite-
ria or methodology be changed?
Or is it just that some drugs are in
the wrong category?
That is what is in the Lancet paper.
Clearly, a lot of drugs are anomalously
classified; Ecstasy, LSD and mush-
rooms for example. These should cer-
tainly be less than A. Maybe C, B or C,
depends. But definitely there are some
drugs which are Class A but shouldn’t
be. That I think undermines the whole
classification system. Class A should be
Heroin, cocaine, methamphetamines,
other strong opiates.
The Times reported that before
the report came out, Jacqui Smith
was prepared to override the
Council’s decision if necessary.
Was it a surprise that Recommen-
dation 3 was rejected?
We elect the government to do what
they think is best for the country but as
we all know quite often they get things
wrong! There is a peculiar ground
swell of political opinion which is very
old fashioned in respect to drugs. They
seem to feel that punishment and inter-
diction - the very hard line approach -
is actually going to somehow solve the
problem which of course it never has
done and probably never will do. Peo-
ple will get caught in the cross fire of
that. It’s actually quite a naive position.
The Home Secretary did accept 20 of
the 21 recommendations but what we
need to know is whether she is going
to deliver on them or not.
Many of the other recommenda-
tions appear to support cannabis
“Cannabis is a
health issue, not
a legal issue”
“[The
reclassification]
appears to have
been a political
decision”
Chair of the Technical Committee of the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs, Professor David Nutt

