6 felix Friday 23 May 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
International
Headlines from around the globe
The world beyond College walls...
Election Results III
United States
The results from the Oregon and Kentucky primaries of
May the 20th have been released, highlighting further
still the divisions in the Democratic Party. Senator
Clinton has made a clean sweep of Kentucky, winning
by 65% to 30%, while Senator Obama has taken Oregon
58:42. One of the more remarkable polling figures in
Kentucky has shown that two-thirds of Clinton’s voters
would prefer to see McCain in office, rather than Obama.
Fears of a united Republican party eventually defeating
a Democratic party in disarray seem ever more realistic.
Back to the Table
Israel/Syria
For the first time since 2000, Israel and Syria are holding
peace talks. Mediated by Turkish Prime Minister Recep
Erdogan, spokesmen from both governments have now
confirmed that negotiations are underway. The two
countries have officially been at war since 1967, when
Israel captured the Golan Heights during the Six-Day
War. Experts say that Syria will be asking for a return
of the heights, a demand that led to the breakdown of
the talks eight years ago. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert appears to be willing to agree to the withdrawal,
but is likely to insist on Syria’s cutting its links to Iran,
Hezbollah and other militant groups in the area.
I
received a well-placed criti-
cism last week with regards
tominorinaccuraciesonthe
aid response to the China
earthquake. If anyone has
any comments to make on length
of ‘articles’, content, number of sto-
ries etc, feel free to send them in.
Positive or negative, couch them
in semi-courteous language and
I’ll be all too happy to read them.
The problem with this page, of
course, is that it’s only really rel-
evant the day it comes out. If I’m
lucky.Fortherestoftheweekthese
shortsummarieslitterthecampus,
gettingmoreandmoreout-of-date.
In any case, this week has been
a comparatively uneventful one.
The map to your right is largely
covered with updates to stories
reported on in previous weeks:
Tsvangirai’s reurn to Zimbabwe,
Clinton’s continuing battle for
survival, a possible resolution
in Lebanon, and the aftermath
of the Chinese earthquake.
Theabsenceofmajornewsstories,
however, has repeatedly brought
me face-to-face with some of the
less sensational thing happening
this week. A worker in a Swedish
nuclear plant was caught carrying
explosives into the facility, Naples
is still suffering from a crippling
garbage strike, and Ted Kennedy
is back out of hospital. At the
time of writing. Want to find out
more? Please do so. By yourselves.
Tides of Violence
South Africa
Forty-two foreign nationals have been killed in South Africa this past week,
four hundred people have been arrested in connection with the violence,
and some thirteen thousand recent immigrants have been displaced. A
large majority of the targeted immigrants are from Zimbabwe, a country
whose inflation rates are now in the hundreds of thousands of percents.
South Africa’s Nelson Mandela Foundation and Archbishop Desmond
Tutu have condemned these “xenophobic attacks”, while President Thabo
Mbeki is unwilling to describe the attacks as overtly racist. South Africa’s
army has been called in to quell the violence, and the absence of reported
outbreaks on Wednesday indicates that calm may soon be restored.
Gilead Amit

