politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 23 May 2008 felix
International
New President
Taiwan
The election of Ma Ying-jeou as the Taiwanese President
earlier this week marks a clear change in Taiwan’s
proposedforeignpolicy.Forthelasteightyears,President
Chen Shui-bian’s heavily independence-oriented vision
has led to a tense relationship with both China and the
United States. Ma, by contrast, has expressed a keen
desire to renew Taiwan’s friendship with the mainland,
though he opposes any move at reunification. When
Vincent Siew, the new Vice President, met with Chinese
President Hu Jintao last month, it marked the most high-
level communication the two governments have had
since they split apart almost sixty years ago.
Quake Aftermath
China
Latest official reports from the Chinese government
indicate that over 50,000 died in the 7.9 magnitude
earthquake reported on last week. Almost 300,000
people remain injured and close to 30,000 are still
presumed missing. Rescue and relief missions have been
underway virtually nonstop since the disaster, with huge
efforts being made to house the five million or so people
that are now homeless.
Deal Reached
Lebanon
After eighteen months of political strife that at times
looked worryingly close to sparking off another civil
war, a peaceful settlement has been reached. Lebanon’s
pro-Western parliamentary majority and pro-Syrian
opposition have concluded a peace deal in Qatar after
five days of intense negotiations. The main result of
the talks is that the opposition now have the veto right
they were demanding in the country’s national unity
government. One of the first decisions reached after the
agreement was to call for the election of a new president,
currently scheduled for Sunday 25th.
Designed by Gilead Amit & Kadhim Shubber
Tsvangirai Will Return
Zimbabwe
In the build-up to the Presidential run-off on June 27th, Morgan
Tsvangirai has decided to return to Zimbabwe. His party, the
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), has recently claimed
the existence of an assassination plot against Tsvangirai, which
has been enough to delay his return home till this coming
Saturday. Even though the threat is still present, spokesmen have
said that “at a certain point you have to take the risk.” Morgan
Tsvangirai officially won the presidential election in March, but
did not win the 50% needed to avoid a runoff.

