8 felix Friday 23 May 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
Kadhim Shubber
On the reclassification of cannabis
Some of Felix’s finest give their views on the government’s decision to regrade cannabis as a Class B drug
T
he Advisory Council
on the Misuse of Drugs
(ACMD) exists to advise
the government on ille-
gal drugs. Specifically, its
mandate requires it to consider wheth-
er the use of certain drugs constitutes
a social problem. So I ask you, readers,
why does this body exist if govern-
ment ministers, including the Prime
Minister, are going to ignore its well-
informed opinion?
In a report recently published by the
ACMD, which specifically considered
cannabis, the conclusion was made
that cannabis should not be classified
as a Class B drug. Look to pages 4 and
5 of Felix, Professor David Nutt, Chair
of the Technical Committee of ACMD
statesunequivocally,“basedonmedical
evidence, cannabis should definitely be
Class C”: he further says that believing
interdiction will solve the problem is
actually quite a naïve position. These
statements largely sum up the view of
the ACMD in its report.
Who is on the ACMD? 6 Professors,
focused in the general field of pharma-
cology, 8 Doctors, a Reverend, a Judge,
the Assistant Comissioner of the Met-
ropolitan Police and several other high-
ranking police officers. I apologise for
boring you with that long list, but the
point is that this body is made up of
people who have first-hand knowledge
about drug safety, enforcement and
the effects of drugs in society; in short,
they know a lot more about this issue
than Jacqui Smith or Gordon Brown.
What, therefore, could motivate the
government to ignore the reasonable
and intelligent recommendation of the
ACMD, considering that they’re the
ones who asked for the report to be
made? Of course I am not suggesting
that government should be controlled
by unaccountable experts (although I
should hope you are not naïve enough
to think that government policy origi-
nates from ministers), though that is
not the issue in this case. The govern-
ment has chosen to ignore the advice
of experts because there is another fac-
tor that the council did not take into
consideration, both because it would
be illegal for them to do so, and also
because it is right for them to ignore it.
This factor is the public image of gov-
ernment. Jaqcui Smith told the House
of Commons that she had to take pub-
lic perceptions into consideration.
It’s not a case of the government
making a difficult decision, rather, Jac-
qui Smith has decided to listen to the
portion of society that has reactionary,
uninformed views of drugs and who
do not come into regular contact with
drugs, instead of scientists, policemen
and legal experts whose views are fully
informed and well thought out. The all-
important question of why she did this
comes with a simple answer of num-
bers, and by numbers I mean votes and
by votes I mean the next general elec-
tion. Labour is already being thrashed
in the polls, the last thing they want to
do is allow the Conservatives to appear
tough on drugs uncontested. In short
Jacqui Smith is sending a message to
voters that Labour is tough on crime,
though the only thing most people
hear is “I’m doing what’s best for my
political career, not what’s best for the
people of this country”.
If you read the report, which I’m cer-
tain nobody in this university will, you
will find that the Council are keen to
do away with the technicalities of the
drug classification system and con-
sistently advise that cannabis should
be dealt with as a health issue rather
than a criminal issue. The evidence
shows that the changes since the de-
classification have been positive, with
a reduction in use while fears about
‘skunk’ are ummm… just fears. Instead
of making a decision that will benefit
the health of the nation and reduce the
damage that cannabis does to society,
this Labour government has done the
opposite and ensured that we all take
a collective step backwards away from
an effective policy on drugs in this
country.
Rule of the ignorant
Andrew Turley
The politician’s right to choose
T
wo weeks ago, the long-
awaited report on can-
nabis from the Advisory
Council on the Misuse
of Drugs (ACMD) finally
appeared. After nine months of care-
ful deliberation, the expert panel, from
a wide range of professional back-
grounds, and boasting an impressive
array of degrees and distinctions, con-
cluded that cannabis should not be re-
classified as a Class B drug – relatively
good news for anyone ‘puffing the
magic dragon’ on a regular basis.
How did the government respond?
The same day, Home Secretary Jac-
qui Smith announced that – wait for
it – cannabis would be reclassified as
a Class B drug – bogus news for those
users (who presumably felt they were
experiencing some sort of ‘bad trip’)
and on the face of it rather distressing
too for anyone concerned about the
role of independent advice in govern-
ment decision-making. But predicta-
bly, there’s more to the story than that.
The media was quick to clarify the
public’s concern, lamenting the fla-
grant disregard for expert analysis. The
more vociferous outlets (you know who
they are) criticised the government for
commissioning an independent report
to gain legitimacy for a controversial
area of policy, and then choosing to
disregard it when the whole scheme
spectacularly backfired and the report
contained the categorically ‘wrong’
answer.
Which is a pretty fair
assessment of what hap-
pened, but it isn’t neces-
sarily a problem. It’s no
bad thing that the govern-
ment isn’t blindly obey-
ing the edicts of experts, but is instead
making its own decisions. That is, after
all, the politician’s defining preroga-
tive: to consider the advice and weigh
it against the myriad other factors be-
fore moving one way or the other. Ours
would be a sorry state of democracy if
our chosen leaders simply passed all
the tricky decisions onto groups of
unelected and unaccountable experts.
Such groups undoubtedly provide
valuable analysis, but they shouldn’t be
allowed to run the country.
But whether the recommendations
were indeed carefully considered is de-
batable. Was the government genuine-
ly informed by the process? If it wants
to overrule the experts, it’s obliged to
provide adequate justification, evi-
dence that it thought about what was
said.
The Home Secretary has stressed
she was happy to acquiesce to the vast
majority of the report’s suggestions,
accepting 20 of its 21 recommenda-
tions. But there is little there binding
the government to specific, meaning-
ful action. The usual calls for more
research, inquiries and monitoring,
as well as campaigns aimed at rais-
ing awareness, all feature highly. But
the one recommendation with clear
and direct implications, the recom-
mendation to leave the classification
unchanged, was the one rejected. The
rest were mere window-dressing.
The report also allowed the govern-
ment a curious degree of flexibility on
the specific issue of classification, hint-
ing at a worrying level of negotiation.
The Council was required “to consider
only [the harmfulness of cannabis] to
individuals and society” and not “to
take into account matters such as the
message that is conveyed to the public,
or the consequences for policing pri-
orities”. It is surprising, therefore, that
despite mentioning both these factors
the Home Secretary’s main justifica-
tion was the rise in the availability of
skunk and the suspected link between
cannabis use and mental illness. Both
these considerations fell within the re-
mit of the report.
But this talk about skunk and the
dangers of its purported potency begs
another question: if skunk is a dis-
tinct form of cannabis, which does
indeed pose a significantly higher dan-
ger to society, why is it not classified
separately?
The answer is because the classifi-
cation simply doesn’t relate to actual
usage. It’s a smoke-screen obscuring
more pressing problems, specifically
the critical state Britain’s drug laws are
in.
The system of classification which
forms the basis of the Misuse of Drugs
Act has for some time been considered
woefully inadequate. The March 2007
report of the RSA Commission
on Illegal
Drugs, Communities and Public Policy
stated that Britain’s current drug laws
are “not fit for purpose” and that de-
cisions are “driven by moral panic”
rather than evaluations of the potential
for harm.
The reclassification puts cannabis
with drugs such as amphetamines and
barbiturates, and from 2009 users will
risk up to five years imprisonment. But
this will matter little if policing and
sentencing practices don’t change, and
early indications suggest they won’t.
First time offenders will escape with a
warning. Those caught a second time
will receive an on-the-spot, £80 fine.
Only those caught a third time will be
arrested and face the possibility of a jail
sentence. This is not a grand departure
from how the laws governing cannabis
are currently interpreted. At present,
as a Class C drug possession of can-
nabis is not an arrest offence and most
incidences result in nothing more than
a warning and the confiscation of the
drug, although police can take stronger
action against repeat offenders if public
order is at risk or children are deemed
vulnerable.
The reclassification of cannabis,
therefore, has allowed the government
to appear tough on drugs without hav-
ing to genuinely engage with the dif-
ficult and divisive issue of recreational
cannabis use. Whilst the government
fiddles with drug labels according to
superficial party fashions, the crippling
flaws in the legislation remain. We
shouldn’t worry that the
government rejected the
ACMD’s recommendations,
but that the recommenda-
tions were destined to miss
the point from the outset.
“
The system
of classification
has for some
time been
considered
woefully
inadequate
”

