comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 23 May 2008 felix
Comment
I
enjoy ranting, but normally I
don’t feel the need to publish it.
In this case, however, I make an
exception.
In spite of the fact that the
photo to my left makes me look des-
picably smug and that I am slowly, but
undeniably, losing my hair, I have a
girlfriend. She (rather selfishly, I might
add) decided to get an education at Ox-
ford University. I now have the gross
misfortune to need to travel there. I
don’t have anything against Oxford or
my girlfriend (for the most part) but
having to get the train ranks in enjoy-
ment somewhere between smallpox
and drowning in your own excrement.
If I may, esteemed readers, I should
like to construct a ridiculously over-
elaborate metaphor to explain my last
experience on the trains. Most trains to
Oxford look, sound and feel as if they
were put together by a one-legged,
no-handed man, who has lost several
amateur arse-kicking contests. He has,
however, come back for that one final
attemptatthe“bigtime”beforeretiring.
In a completely unpredictable twist, he
has had to remortgage his house to pay
for his grandchildren’s education as his
son and daughter in law were killed in
a tragically comic accident involving
Didcot Parkway station and some Brie.
Due to an ill-advised option from the
buffet cart on the free train journeys
he gets (in an insulting reminder of the
lack of any real pension) to the compe-
tition, he has suffered a poorly-timed
bout of explosive diarrhoea. As you
can imagine, the rubbery cheese they
put in those sandwiches doesn’t make
for particularly abrasive faeces, and
so slipping on his remaining leg, his
face implodes for some reason I can-
not back up with conventional medical
science. Finally, in a last act of revenge,
he uses what he has left of his distem-
pered, mutilated body to bludgeon the
remainder of the train together and
sends it off to the depot.
Having now sold you on the idea of
train travel, I’m giving you some first-
hand advice on how to make your jour-
ney bearable.
1) Take a deckchair and some duct
tape.
As we all know, you will be unlike-
ly to find a seat anywhere. Your seat
reservation means about as much as
sensible transport policies do to Boris
Johnson. Apparently, according to the
conditions of travel (and this is actu-
ally true), your ticket entitles you to get
from A to B; it doesn’t guarantee you
a seat, the ability to move, or even the
availability of oxygen. If you can man-
age to find a seat, use your deckchair
instead. The train seats are for some
reason designed so that you cannot
sit in any non-sciatica-inducing posi-
tion, whereas any slight movement on
the “cushion” will tear you a new set of
haemorrhoids. Hence the duct tape –
either tape them back in or strap your-
self to the roof and pray to whatever
or whoever you want that there are no
low bridges.
2) Don’t play the Generation Game.
If you are waiting to use the toilet fa-
cilities on the train to avoid paying the
20p at the station, I sincerely suggest
paying as an astute investment. Thanks
to the Disability Discrimination Act,
all trains now have these ridiculous
gameshow toilets. Featuring some
kind of star trek door is all very well
and good, but not when the buttons
mean bugger all. I discovered it’s not
enough to close the door; apparently
you need to be acquainted with bomb
disposal to press the correct combina-
tion of buttons to lock the damn thing.
If you don’t, then you and everything
you are doing are revealed as the sorry,
naked prize of the next unsuspecting
passenger wanting to use the toilet a la
the cuddly toy on the generation game.
This can create unprecedented levels
of awkwardness, but if you can watch
this happen to someone else it’s a nice
way of forgetting what a crap place you
have found yourself in.
3) The train staff are your enemy.
I’m not exaggerating when I say that I
felt like I was being treated as a terror-
ist in an American internment camp.
When the world’s most incompetent
oaf had attempted to lie to us about
how we would shortly be on our way
several times, he made the decision
to leave his microphone on. We were
then treated every 3 minutes to large
bursts of ear-piercing white noise
which I assume was interference and
not an attempt to get us to confess to
spurious national security charges,
but they could have quite easily been
confused. My fellow passengers and I
tried to make light of the situation with
some bemused eye contact. Although
it was comforting to know that I wasn’t
the only one on the path to complete
insanity I nonetheless felt ripped off at
having to actually pay for sleep depri-
vation. Out of interest, I’d love to know
what kind of assessment centres these
people attend for these jobs; some-
where along the line lying and induc-
ing mental health issues in passengers
became measureable skills.
The buffet and its consequences
have already been alluded to, but suf-
fice to say that if you try to associate
the terms “train buffet” and “food hy-
giene,” the universe will implode.
4) Be ruthless.
Sell your fellow passengers down the
river. The atmosphere on a train is al-
ways tense, helped along by the gentle
but frequent reminder of impending
death and the necessity of watching
for any “suspicious bags or behaviour.”
Seeing as the train-operating compa-
nies are attempting to create a police
state, why not use this to your advan-
tage and try reporting that guy in the
seat opposite you to the guard? Before
you know it, he will be removed with-
out warning and may be destroyed,
leaving you to return your legs to a
semi-natural position.
5) If you value your digestive tract,
I reiterate that the buffet cart is a bad
choice.
To conclude, I highly recommend
train travel if you enjoy unexplained
delays, poor service and intestinal dys-
function. Otherwise, walk to your des-
tination, even if it is the other end of
the country; it will still be far less pain-
ful. I don’t expect, nor really want, any-
thing to change though. A little part of
me lights up inside when I see that eve-
ryone can adopt that famed stiff upper
lip, as it would be a shame for people
to actually complain. That would be
crazy, because someone might try and
fix it, and we can’t have that.
Jaimie Henry
Welcome to Purgatory, next stop Hell
A. Geek
Welcome to Purgatory, next stop Hell 2
“
Nothing can
make it any less
weird – I shouted
at someone in
public
I
came close to assaulting some-
one this week. I’m not a violent
person, as the wife-beaters say,
but I actually managed to lose
it sufficiently on the Tube dur-
ing the rush hour to shout at a woman
as she flailed around on the edge of a
Victoria Line train. If you were there,
wearing a trenchcoat and acting like
a tosser, just be glad your ridiculous
hairstyle made it home intact.
I’m not bringing that up because I
think violence is great fun, or a facet
of manliness, though it might well turn
out to be. I’m bringing it up because I
was actually a little disgusted with my-
self that I managed to shout Captain
Inept down as she fought desperately
to delay me in every way she could.
Yes, she was hanging onto the top of
the train so as not to step off the train
while others were leaving. Yes, I was
having thoughts of genocide. Yes, there
was some pisskidney trying to barge
into the train at the same time, despite
the obvious trouble I was having with
the hair-wearing freak. But nothing
can make it any less weird – I shouted
at someone in public.
Reflection and confession can go
screw themselves on an island holi-
day in the Med, however, because as
much as I’d love to go on about how
it made me think about the role of
anger in modern society, my day trip
only progressed to get worse as I jour-
neyed along the District Line towards
the ominously-tennis-less Wimbledon
station. I’d been standing up for all of
thirty seconds when four suits barged
in, inserting all manner of leather-clad
objects into my back and talking loudly
on their mobiles phones in broad Scot-
tish accents. What was worse was that,
as the journey went on, I was increas-
ingly under the impression that the
people they were phoning were actu-
ally on the same carriage.
At this point, I came to the realisation
that we’re taking the knife-crime thing
in the wrong direction. Having knife
barriers and the like is a total waste of
time – instead, have knife dispensers.
Just give everyone on the Tube a knife
around the time of rush hour, and you
solve most problems. First of all, you’ve
got a level playing field right off the
bat. If Old Man War Veteran has a flick
knife as well then everyone’s on the
same page when it comes to confron-
tations. It also means I can slit throats
with gay abandon without feeling too
bad that I was attacking essentially de-
fenceless members of the public.
Best of all, though, is that it removes
the culture of knives altogether. Instead
of being something cool, they’re really
ordinary. As soon as the middle-aged
pricks are whipping out whetstones
on the Northern Line services each
evening, it’ll become really boring and
suddenly the London Lite sudoku will
seem edgy, and rule-breaking.
Reverse psychology – the approach
of kings and the king of approaches?
This might mean that I’m a violent
person at heart after all, or it might
just mean that I get extremely angry
“
Most trains
to Oxford feel
as if they were
put together by
a one-legged,
no-handed man,
who has lost
several amateur
arse-kicking
contests
”
about things like this. The wanderers,
the meanderers, the uppity, five-o-
clock pillocks who clog up every right
of way they can – I’m not sure that
gang violence is borne out of frustra-
tion incurred on public transport, but
it wouldn’t surprise me if sometimes
those armed youths weep for the chil-
dren of tomorrow and the stressful
morning commutes they may have to
endure. I like that idea. It makes them
less intimidating when they’re drunk-
enly swaying around Seven Sisters at
three in the morning.
Anyway, that’s basically my mani-
festo for 2012. Recruiting campaigners
now – CVs on a digestive biscuit to the
usual address.
Way out... Mind the door doesn’t hit your arse, trenchcoat woman

