FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
One billion hungry: can we
Jula Humphries interviews Sir Professor Gordon Conway about foo
important role of women in Africa, the role of students, especially engi
Jula Humphries: What are the key
threats to global food security?
Professor Sir Gordan Conway: The
three main challenges we’ve got at the
moment are: food price spikes, the
persistence of a billion or more peo-
ple suﬀering from chronic hunger and
the need to feed a growing population
in the face of a wide range of adverse
factors.
The ﬁrst challenge is food price
spikes; that is every few years the price
of food suddenly shoots up to a big
high and then collapses. We’ve had
two since 2007 and we are into the
third one now, but we don’t know how
high it is going to go. The importance
of these is that they aﬀect the poor
disproportionately. The poor spend
a high proportion of their income,
often half of all the money they earn,
on food, and often the price stays high
like that so that’s one big challenge.
The second is that we’ve got nearly a
billion people hungry today, we don’t
know exactly how many, there may be
800 million or a billion, and the most
shocking statistic there is that we’ve
got 180 million children hungry, un-
der the age of ﬁve, who are malnour-
ished – that means they are stunted,
they are a low height for their age, and
that happens in the ﬁrst thousand days
of life in other words pregnancy plus
two years. If they do not get the right
food, in particular having the right mi-
cronutrients like vitamin A, zinc and
iron and so on. Without these micro-
nutrients they are stunted, there are
180 million children like this in the
world.
The third big challenge is that we’ve
got to feed the word by 2050, now part
of that is population increase. Popula-
tion is going to go up by thirty per cent
or more, it is going to go up to nine
and a half billion. Population increase
is probably just about manageable in
terms of increasing food but the big is-
sue is not the increase in population
but the increase in per capita incomes,
particularly in growing countries. The
rapidly growing countries like China,
India and Brazil, termed high growth
countries. Those counties are shifting
towards more western style diets; this
means people are eating more bread,
wheat and livestock products. The
point is the livestock all require feed,
the cows, the sheep and the goats and
the chickens all require feed. So, you
have got to produce a lot more grain
for that. For example if you produce
one kilo of meat, it takes eight kilos of
grain, roughly.
So that is a big challenge. On top of
that is the challenge that comes from
competition with biofuels. If you grow
maize, corn. If you grow corn it gets
sold for human food, animal feed and
for biofuels. There is big competition
there, which we have got to cope with.
The land is degraded and the water
is degraded through overuse, pollu-
tion and so on. And most important
of all is climate change. We have got
increasing temperatures, reduced
rainfall in some places. That is aﬀect-
ing food production. And then every
now and again an extreme event like
the big drought that occurred in the
United States this year or the big heat
wave and drought in Russia in 2010
or the big ﬂooding in Pakistan also in
2010. To cope with all of this food pro-
duction has to double. We have got
the same amount of land but we have
got to increase yields. Increase yields
on the same amount of land, using less
water, applying less fertiliser, apply-
ing less pesticides and producing less
greenhouse gases, methane, nitrous
oxide and carbon dioxide so that’s the
big challenge. The book is about that,
how to tackle it – technology and dif-
ferent methods.
JH: How to balance the diﬀerent
technologies with more traditional
farming methods also cost as well,
which is the cost beneﬁt ratio of
what is the best way forward?
GC: We have basically got four kinds
of technology, traditional ones, con-
ventional technologies, intermediate
ones, which are combined traditional
and conventional technologies and
then you platform technologies which
consist of ICT and biotechnology, soft
infrastructure, and nanotechnology.
No one of those are any better than
the other, it depends on what works in
what circumstances, so you’ve got to
look at the environment, social envi-
ronment, the economic environment
and the housing environment and see
which one works. Don’t be prejudice
about what kind of environment you
are going to start with. Deﬁnitely the
way forward is a combination of tech-
nologies. Remember you have to judge
each area individually. That’s quite a
challenge. The spatial scale must be
considered to.
Let’s for example take the example
of increasing nutrition, for poor peo-
ple in particular women and children.
Then it is good to say have a garden
round the home, where you grow lots
of diﬀerent crops, you have crops,
ﬁsh and chickens and so on. That will
improve the nutrition. But if you are
trying to increase the total amount of
rice available in a country, particularly
in Africa. Then you may need large
irrigation schemes. They are plan-
ning one like that in Mozambique to
produce high quantities of rice and
there you would use very advanced
technologies to make that work. So, in
that case a family could purchase the
rice and supplement it with food from
home.
If the woman of the house has a
couple of hectares she may be able to
grow a crop to sell as well, she may
be able to grow some sugarcane or
bananas for income. What you have
to keep on remembering is that poor
farmers need cash, they need cash to
get there kids into school, need cash
for medicines and they need cash for
buying food. In many cases they don’t
produce enough food, so for small
farmers they really have to ﬁnd a way
of earning money, either from selling
things oﬀ their farm or from work-
ing as farm labourers or from getting
some other kind of job in the local
community.
JH: How interconnected have the
food and ﬁnancial markets become?
Joachim von Braun outlined how to
deal with these issues, for example
introducing the grain reserves in
Nigeria and Kenya. Do you think
this is the way forward?
GC: I think we need more reserves.
The world food programme needs big-
ger reserves but also individual coun-
tries need more reserves but I think
the priority we have been pushing re-
cently is that you need better regional
trade. In other words, you need to be
able to trade grain between Kenya,
Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and so on.
A similar system to the interconnected
European Union is required in Africa.
There are many barriers to that, for in-
stance political or infrastructural.
JH: Is the Fairtade movement a way
forward to increase food security?
Is it feasible to increase the Fair-
trade market, it is only a very small
percentage of the market currently.
What do you think?
GC: I think it is. I think it’s interesting
that Fairtrade is quite popular among
consumers, at least in Britain. People
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
10
Sir Professor Gordon Conway

