FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
feed the world?
od security, how to balance new technologies, Fairtrade, the
ineers, and his genetically modified bottomless cup of tea...
11
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
go for Fairtade, they think they are
beneﬁting poorer farmers. Poor farm-
ers are getting more of the value added
than they would otherwise and I think
that is true. Fairtrade works diﬀerently
in diﬀerent countries and it is more
successful in some places than in oth-
ers but the important thing is that
more of the beneﬁt has to go to the
farmer and the farming community.
I think in many cases there is a pow-
er imbalance. What you have to do,
you have to help farmers form co-op-
eratives, and contract farmer groups,
so that they have got the power of be-
ing part of a co-operative and doing
the deals with the big companies. Co-
operatives for example have been de-
veloped in the Netherlands, for exam-
ple all the milk in the Netherlands is
produced by co-operatives. And those
co-operatives are all quite strong.
They can therefore bargain in terms of
the money they need. We need to get
more of that working for example in
Africa. In fact there is a Dutch bank
called Rabba Bank, which is a very ex-
cellent co-operative bank, built up of
lots of little co-operative banks. They
now work in Africa helping farmers
to create co-operatives, that’s working
quite well.
Farmers in strong co-operatives,
with strong leaders to support can
bargain and get the value they need
and deserve.
JH: Professor Conway, you have
written about how important the
role of women is in Africa. Could
you tell us a bit about this?
GC: Fundamentally we must realise
that nearly half the farmers in Africa
are women and they have enormous
potential, not just as farmers but also
as mothers because they determine
what children eat, so they can improve
their nutrition. They can also be in-
novators and educators too. Basically,
women are farmers, mothers, educa-
tors and innovators.
More must be done to support wom-
en in these roles, a lot of it is about em-
powering women’s’ group for example
through WARM, which works in East-
ern Africa. WARM is way of ensuring
women have a stronger voice to aﬀect
policies. In many cases, the most im-
portant thing is when a programme
or project is designed whether it is by
the government or NGOs or the pri-
vate sector. You have to ensure there
is a target for women’s right from the
beginning, in other words you don’t
just add it on at the end. In fact that
is true of nearly everything we have
been talking about here. You don’t just
say we will have a yield increase and
then we’ll make it stable. Or we’ll have
growth and then later on you think
well we ought to do something about
resilience. There must be growth plus
resilience from the beginning. There
must be yield plus stability of yield
from the beginning. You’ve got to have
and increase in production and in-
creased value added from the bottom
from the beginning. All of this plus
empowerment of women must occur
from the beginning. Don’t treat wom-
en, or the environment or resilience
as add-ons, which they often are. Oh
my goodness, we’ve forgotten about
women let’s dump something in. You
don’t want to do that, we have to make
sure it is there from the beginning.
JH: Are there are any schemes en-
couraging people to return and in-
vest in their home countries? Do we
need more of a focus on this?
GC: Yes, there are schemes like this.
At the Rockefeller foundation we had
a programme on biotechnology in
Asia and many went back. A lot of it
was because in addition to supporting
the individuals to do their training,
you were supporting the institutions
from which they came and when they
went back there was money given to
those institutions so they could con-
tinue to do their research.
JH: What do you think the role of
students is in this? Have you heard
of Raincatcher, where engineering
students go to Tanzania every year
to build rain harvesting systems?
GC: I think getting students to go and
help and work in villages is excellent.
It is excellent for them, for they learn a
lot more. What is important, that eve-
ry time you do something like this you
think about the sustainability of what
you are doing. In a sense, it is like the
old parable; you can give people ﬁsh to
eat and feed them for a day but teach
a man to ﬁsh and you feed him for a
lifetime. It is very important that when
student groups work in a developing
country, that what they are doing is
helping to put something into place
that will continue long after they are
gone. So, they work with the commu-
nity; it is about learning together. It is
very important to not assume that we
go to a place and teach them what to
do for most poor communities know
very well what they should be doing.
And if you talk with them, particularly
if you use participatory rural appraisal
PRA, through using such techniques
the farmers themselves become very
clear about what needs to be done.
Then you consider what can be done
to break down these barriers together
and then you work it through. That is
what the approach should be.
JH: A slightly silly question: what
every day object would you geneti-
cally modify? Tim Arbabzadah said
he would create a bottomless cup of
tea.
GC: I would create an email system
that answered every email on my be-
half without me having to look at it.
The annual ‘Carbon show’, that took
place at London’s Business Design
Centre this October, is a chance for
industry-types and Carbon aﬁciona-
dos to network, mingle and promote.
However, what was advertised as ‘ the
leading annual event on energy eﬃ-
ciency and the low carbon economy’
presented a very dire image of the
carbon economy. The Carbon Show
shrunk to around 1/3 of its size from
last year, to only having around twenty
exhibitors (and last year’s event was
in itself still somewhat underwhelm-
ing, with many stallholders leaving
dissatisﬁed). The exhibitors this year
included consultants, certiﬁcation
companies and veriﬁers; although re-
ally it appeared to just focus on com-
panies with the name Carbon in them:
Carbon Clear, Carbon Credentials,
The Carbon Trust, Carbon Advice
Group. Presentations and Seminars
ran throughout the day on energy ef-
ﬁciency, carbon investment and green
technologies. These represented com-
panies and organisations ranging from
Jaguar Land Rover to Kingﬁscher Plc,
RBS and the Energy Saving Trust. Al-
though informative and sometimes
enjoyable, the entire show seemed
marked from the very beginning by
the sense of a lacklustre under-perfor-
mance.
It seems that a lack of political cer-
tainty around climate change and the
recession appears to have drastically
impacted businesses. The Carbon
Trust, one of the key sponsor’s of the
event, have lost most of their gov-
ernment funding and are now, it ap-
pears from the waves of redundancies,
struggling to establish themselves in
the private sector. A further stall, TÜV
NORD, a German based validation,
veriﬁcation and certiﬁcation com-
pany, mentioned how the uncertainty
of post-Kyoto agreements were hurt-
ing their business, speciﬁcally their
work of verifying Joint Implementa-
tion and Clean Development Mecha-
nism projects under the EU emission
trading scheme. It wasn’t all bad news,
Eco-desk, an online platform for com-
panies to promote the measures they
have taken to be sustainable in their
independent operations, appeared to
be on the rise and enjoying the day’s
steady traﬃc.
Although I walked out of the event
feeling depressed about my future
career prospects, this smaller, more
intimate carbon show was actually
surprisingly quite appealing. As Ka-
ren Hayward from Carbon Leapfrog
said “it is a lot smaller than last year
but it lends itself to more meaningful
conversations”. Indeed, the impor-
tance to maintain the spaces whereby
debate can ﬂourish, and these sig-
niﬁcant global problems can be dia-
logically worked out cannot be over-
emphasised. Perhaps what is needed
is a re-orientation; a move away from
businesses and move towards a mu-
tually beneﬁcial environment that
brings together businesses in a more
academic-conference style setting. So,
despite the year on year shrinking size
of the event, I would recommend stu-
dents to attend next years - that is if it
is still running and you can avoid the
steep prices.
To register: http://www.thecarbon-
show.com/register/
Roll up, roll up, for the Carbon Show
Antonia Weitzer Writer
thecarbonshow.com
Apparently the person making
the sign sent a newspaper head-
line about a company drawing
up plans for a building rather
than the centre name. AW SNAP

