CLUBS & SOCIETIES felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
14
Life after the earthquake
multi-dimensional na-
tional disaster – an
earthquake, tsunami and
nuclear threat from a
damaged power plant –
that is the situation Japan found itself
in on March 11th 2011. Since then,
how have the aﬀected areas been re-
covering? What is the situation like
today, in both infrastructure and the
lives of ordinary people living in the
aftermath?
This September, seven Imperial Col-
lege students (Ryan Browne, James Li,
Emilien Dupont, Colin Say, Yingkun
Hou, Dolan Miu and Faizi Freeman-
tle) travelled to Rikuzentakata, Iwate
Prefecture, Tohoku Region, on the
Eastern coast of Japan to conduct a
recovery support project. We aimed
to impact the area on three separate
levels – the community, public, and
educational sectors. We wanted to
ﬁnd out the reality of life during and
following a disaster of this scale.
On arrival in Rikuzentakata, we
toured the city with a local guide. Our
ﬁrst impressions were of shock and
horror – ruined buildings, half-stood
as empty shells, only the foundations
of houses remained to litter ﬂat ex-
panses of ground, and the roads were
still being laid as we drove. The piles of
debris that had been collected imme-
diately after the disaster still remained,
half-covered in grass. We were able
to see the key symbol of hope for the
region, the ‘Miracle Pine Tree’, a sin-
gle pine tree on the coastline that had
withstood the force of tsunami whilst
70,000 other trees around it perished.
The City Hall lost a third of its em-
ployees to the tsunami, and currently
operates from a temporary site. We
visited Mr Toba and Mr Kubota, the
Mayor and Vice-Mayor, to hear their
experience of the disaster and to dis-
cuss the future of the city. The recov-
ery will take decades, owing not just to
the scale of the clear-up operation, but
also to the slow process of governmen-
Ryan Browne and six others help out in the Tohoku region in Japan
tal approval.
The following days, we visited pri-
mary schools to talk to the children
there, as well as cleaning the school
windows, and holding English activi-
ties for the children aﬀected by the
disaster. It was amazing to see the chil-
dren so full of life and spirit despite
their hardship. We worked at Hirota
Harbour on the coastline for two days,
helping the scallop ﬁshermen there
with cleaning activities. The scallop
industry in Rikuzentakata used to be
renowned, but following the disaster,
their business had been severely af-
fected, through loss of equipment,
and also a fear in the people to eat
scallops from the surrounding waters.
We hoped that our visit may boost
the proﬁle of the ﬁshermen again, and
our activities there were ﬁlmed by the
NHK.
On our last day in Rikuzentakata, we
travelled to temporary housing sites
for people who had lost their homes,
to set up an English style café. The
people who live in these homes suf-
fered not just the loss of their posses-
sions and family members, but a com-
plete upheaval of their community.
The temporary housing took months
to be built, and has cramped living
conditions and poor insulation for the
winter. We wanted to bring together
the people who live there and oﬀer
them enjoyment outside of their daily
routine.
Following our time in Rikuzen-
A
takata, we travelled to Tokyo to meet
with representatives from professional
organisations such as the Ministry of
Defence, The Japanese Committee for
UNICEF, and the Adventist Develop-
ment and Relief Agency; as well as
student-led groups such as Tokyo Uni-
versity of Foreign Studies For Tohoku,
Waseda University Volunteer Cen-
tre, and Youth For 3.11. The purpose
of these discussions was to ﬁnd out
how they had separately dealt with the
Earthquake, and to put forward ideas
for how International volunteers can
contribute to the recovery eﬀort.
I believe our project was a life-
changing experience for those in-
volved, and we successfully fulﬁlled
our aim of positively impacting the dif-
ferent social levels. In any case, I would
certainly encourage anyone to travel to
Tohoku region, away from the imme-
diate coastline large cities like Sendai
continue on relatively unscathed, there
are countless areas of natural beauty
such as Matsushima Bay, and the en-
tire area can feel the beneﬁt of tourism
and international interest.
Our project was organised by Action
for Japan UK, an organisation founded
by UK graduate students following the
disaster, and now co-run by Imperial
College students. If you would like to
get involved in Action for Japan UK’s
activities, please speak to any of those
involved, email actionforjapanuk@
gmail.com, or visit actionforjapan-uk.
net for more information.

