CLUBS & SOCIETIES
felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER 15
Last week at Imperial saw the celebration
of the College’s ﬁrst ever International
Week with a great myriad of activities
takingplace.TheWeekwassetuptopro-
mote the cultural diversity present at our
university in the hope that all students
and cultures are represented and encour-
aged to express themselves equally.
International Week saw students cel-
ebrate their cultural traditions whilst try-
ing to raise funds for International Night,
with students taking part in events in-
cluding traditional dances, sharing food
and playing sports – making the week
a resounding success and laying the
foundations well for International Night
(Inight) next term (9 February 2012).
International Night is a celebration
of cultural diversity within the College.
With events based around topics varying
from belly dancing to traditional oriental
shows, aiming to promote multicultural-
ism within the College and encouraging
the international community to come
together and celebrate their countries
traditions with any proﬁts being passed
to charity.
Below, we hear from 2 committee
members and 2 societies describing
some of the events during the week.
The Queen’s Tower event
“This year we wanted to do something
specialtomarktheInternationalWeekat
Imperial and also something that would
help us to raise the proﬁle of the Over-
seas committee that represents all of the
international societies at the college. We
also hoped to raise funds for Inight that
will take place on the 9th Feburary 2013.
What better way, we thought, than open-
ing the Queen’s Tower to visitors!! Going
up to the top to enjoy the view and sur-
prisingly, the good weather, did not dis-
appoint! For those that missed out, the
OSC hopes to open up the tower again
in February.
A big thank you to all of the OSC Ex-
ecutive committee who made it possible
together with the college itself!” – Wasim
Khouri, OSC Chair.
Cyprus Hospitality Night
“As part of the ﬁrst International Week
at Imperial, the Imperial College Cypriot
Society organized a special event for eve-
ryone at Imperial to get to know more
about Cyprus, its hospitable people and
alsotheamazingCypriotcuisine,deﬁned
by a splendid mixture of Mediterranean
and Middle-Eastern food. The event,
named ‘Cyprus Hospitality Night’ was an
excellent opportunity for people to taste
the local starters of “pitta” bread with
“taramosalata”(made from smoked cods
roe), “houmous” and “lountza” (delicious
smoked and marinated loin of pork). Of
course, the famous Cypriot cheese, “hal-
loumi”
, couldn’t be missed from the event
and it was actually served grilled which
made it even tastier! Moreover, attendees
had the chance to try some of the island’s
International Week 2012
ﬁnest traditional deserts such as ‘Cyprus
delights’ or Cypriot “loukoumia”
, “soutzi-
oukos” (made of grape must, nuts and
ﬂour)andthesemolinavarietyof“halvas”
.
The event turned out to be very success-
ful and all the food and deserts were con-
sumed very quickly, leaving everybody
amazed by the Cypriot ﬂavours! Finally,
everyone left satisﬁed by the friendliness
of Cypriot people and enjoyed the Cyp-
riot hospitality. “ – Ioannis Kourouklides,
Cypriot society. (See Food, page 44)
HellenicSocietytraditionalcui-
sine day
“The Hellenic Society gave Imperial
College a small taste of its cuisine. On
Thursday afternoon, the Society’s stand
in front of the Sheﬃeld Building and the
Queen’s Tower Rooms oﬀered a treat to
anyone who passed by. Greek salad on-
a-stick with tomato, cucumber and “feta”
,
cheese pie snacks (“tyropitakia”) and tra-
ditional “dolmadakia” were just a few of
thedelicaciesfreelyoﬀeredbytheGreeks
of the College as part of the International
Week. Of course, the menu contained
traditionalGreekdessertaswell!So,after
having some of the food provided, you
couldtasteanicelittlesweetcalledGreek
“loukoumi” or the traditional Christmas
sweets of “melomakarono” or “koura-
bies”
, both devoured en masse during the
Christmas period!
The event lasted for two hours, during
the lunch break that is, and was enjoyed
by a very large number of Imperial stu-
dents as well as members of staﬀ. The
food was also accompanied by modern
Greek popular music that resulted in a
feast of Greek dancing!” – Michael Dina-
lexi, Hellenic society
The OSC World cup
“Saturday the 17th November saw the
4th Annual OSC World Cup tourna-
ment take place at Imperial College with
over 100 players representing 16 coun-
tries, ﬁghting it out to get their name on
the famous OSC World cup and create a
legacy at the College.
Imperial’s largest international sports
event is a chance for students from dif-
ferent cultures within the university to
come together and play for their coun-
triesinwhatismanystudents’lastchance
tofulﬁlltheirdreamofplayinginaWorld
Cup ﬁnal. The day did not disappoint.
Exciting group stages and 1 round of
knock out saw Spain, Iraq, Arab soc and
Nigeria make the semi ﬁnals.
After two incredible, tight games in
which any team could have prospered,
Iraq and Arabic society won through to
a ﬁnal that was to see an exciting repeat
meeting of the societies from game one
of the tournament and a repeat of the ﬁ-
nal 4 years ago.
A ﬁerce battle ensued seeing Arabic
society dominate for periods but the
strength of Iraq was just too much in the
end and they fought through to lift the
OSC world cup once again. Their prize
sees them win £70 to enable them to
fund future society events together with
the much coveted OSC World Cup. The
Iraqi ﬂag will be ﬂown at the university
to represent their great feat in claiming
the cup for the second time in its 4-year
history.
Overall, the day was a resounding suc-
cess and helps continue the hard work of
the Oversees Societies Executive Com-
mittee and all of its committed members
who strive to promote cultural diversity
within the College. We continue to work
for this cause and greatly thank all those,
particularly Sport Imperial, who join us
in this cause and without who’s generos-
ity the event could not have taken place.
A big congratulations to the Iraqi So-
ciety!! Mabrouk Iraq!!” – Alexander Mc-
Farquhar, OSC Sports Oﬃcer.
International Week was colourful, with
ﬂags of many countries ﬂying around the
College, and very successful allowing all
student to come together to celebrate the
activities that make their countries spe-
cial.
For all of you who didn’t get the chance
to see or discover anything about a new
culture during international week, fear
not. Spanish society will add to their
activities in International Week with Ice
Skating at the Natural History Museum
on Monday the 26th November start-
ing at 6.30pm at the Union Bar. (Tickets:
£6.50 for members and £8.50 for non-
members. All welcome!!!)
International Week was a true repre-
sentation of the diversity at Imperial and
itssuccessshowsthestrengthofourmul-
ticultural community within our college.
The success will be followed by a second
International Week in February building
toward Inight which promises to be a
truly fantastic explosion of cultural ideas,
foods and traditions from all around the
world right on your doorstep at Imperial.
Roll on February!!
Alexander McFarquhar OSC
View from Queen’s Tower
A warm sun bordered by a clean sky
that covers you gently in its heat. Majes-
tic palms, whose leaves softly wave in a
light breeze, cast their shadows on white
beaches touched by turquoise waters.
This is what you seek when you go
surﬁng. This is not what you are going to
ﬁnd when you go surﬁng in the UK.
Instead you’ll ﬁnd freezing waters,
greyed by overshadowing clouds that
block any ray of sunshine. Heavy rain
that hits you sideways, sharpened by the
strong cold winds. Icebergs that ﬂoats in-
exorably in the distance.
Okay, the Icebergs part isn’t true. And
it wasn’t actually that bad. But it was with
those premises that, Friday 3rd Novem-
ber, 45 people from SurfSoc left from the
Union, heading down to Newquay, for
the ﬁrst surf trip of the season. Some of
them had already experienced the harsh
conditions of the Cornish coast, but
most of them were beginners and had no
idea what awaited them.
After a seven hour bus ride, a surf
movie, jokes and stories about past trips,
we ﬁnally arrived in the surf capital of the
UK. Too late to go surﬁng, we dropped
oﬀ our stuﬀ in the rooms (nearly all of
them were taken by us) and begun the
clubs’ second favourite activity: drink-
Surfing with the penguins
ing. Forgetting momentarily about our
8am alarm set for the morning after, we
invaded the hostel’s bar.
Half sleepy, half hung-over, we were
awoken by the sound of waves and the
sour promise of a watery coﬀee. In the
same bar from the night before, we ate
our cereals and toast staring out of the
big windows, looking at the bay below
us. The cold, blue waters already hosted
some intrepid surfers. The conditions
looked better than expected from that
altitude and we were not disappointed
once in the sea.
With an average of four feet, and some
sets almost head height, the waves, even
if not perfect, were more than enough
to have fun. The sun, breaking through
the clouds from time to time, provided
a more than welcome psychological
comfort. It was only after two and a half
hours, when hail the size of almonds re-
placed rain, that most people decided
they had enough for the morning.
But the day was still long. After a
quick lunch, the ones that still had some
strength left in their bodies were in for
another session. The most experienced
surfers headed to Fistral Beach, hoping
that its greater exposure to the swells
from the Atlantic would result in big-
ger waves. Though the strong winds had
transformed the unsheltered bay into a
giant open sky washing machine, their
eﬀorts were rewarded with larger waves.
Sunset at ﬁve put an end to surﬁng for
the day. Once more, it was time to drink.
After initiations for the new comers (the
distasteful details of which we will not
mention here), everyone put on their
fancy dress, mandatory for each mem-
ber. And so, once again we invaded the
bar. A few costumes in particular stood
out. A drunk Irish penguin (J. McGuck-
in), a onesy tiger suit (S. Gutierrez) and a
bad Bruno impression (A. Harvey).
The morning after we awoke with
headaches, heavy eyes and, in keeping
with SurfSoc pranking tradition, one of
the rooms covered with sand, from their
bed sheets to the inside of their shoes.
However there was no time for com-
plaining. After packing the few things
we had, we headed down for one last
session.
Our suﬀering was rewarded and our
hangover alleviated not only by bigger
and more energetic waves, but also by
a massive rainbow whose ends touched
the entrance of the bay, creating a gigan-
tic gate in the middle of the sky.
But time ﬂies when you have fun and
threehourslateritwasalreadytimetogo
back home. The bus fell silent after a few
minutes, while people tried to ﬁnd their
lost sleep.
In the following days, the most com-
mon question from my non-surfer
friends was: why? Why face waves that
hit you like buckets of freezing water,
cold winds that slap your face penetrat-
ing your bones, icy streams which ﬂow
between your skin and your oversized
rented wetsuit? Why do you face all that
for a few seconds ride? I have tried to ex-
plain that it’s that few seconds ride, that
moment in which all your problems, all
your worries slide away and it’s only you,
the sea, the speed and the adrenaline,
that makes it all worth it. And it makes
you want more. But it’s pointless. The
only way to understand it is to experi-
ence it.
Luca De Benedetti SurfSoc

