The Green Party: today and tomorrow
The Green Party has been a part of
British politics since 1972 with the
formation of PEOPLE and currently
exists as 3 parties corresponding to
the devolved partitions of England/
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
40 years in, and the Green Party is by
far the largest environmental political
party in the UK, and even gained its
ﬁrst MP, with Caroline Lucas winning
Brighton Pavilion in the 2010 General
Election.
With environmentalism being at the
front and centre of modern politics,
the last 10 years have represented a
watershed era for the Greens. On one
hand, there are signiﬁcant votes avail-
able for green policy, which has long
been their domain; on the other, the
mainstream parties have leapt into the
fray desperately trying to prove that
they can hug trees harder than their
Right Honourable opponents. This is
probably best illustrated by the worst
illustration in modern politics where
someone with the artistic ﬂair of a
5-year old (my guess is Boris Johnson)
took a crayon and drew a “tree” as the
new symbol of the oldest political par-
ty in the world.
Considering the Greens have recent-
ly been forced into a policy turf war
with the heavyweights of parliament,
it is probably fair to say they have done
better than many would have expect-
ed. By embracing any green policy
proposed by any side (admittedly of-
ten alongside the caveat that such a
policy is a step in the right direction,
but does not go far enough), they have
been happy to encourage talk and put
policy over politics, resisting the urge
to ascend a lofty stallion. This strategy
obviously ran the risk of rendering
their party obsolete if the opposition
truly embraced measures to save the
environment, so it is commendable
that the Greens didn’t roll their eyes
and claim that they were still the only
true environmentalists.
Ms Lucas’ step up to the Commons
represents a monumental step for an
environmental party in the UK, and
was as every bit as “historic” as she
claimed at the time. She has been
a very active member, voting in an
above-par three quarters of available
votes during her time in the com-
mons. Additionally she has made an
impressive 70 speeches during already
this year and proposed 71 motions.
However, for all this, it is fair to say
the Greens have not stamped their au-
thority on British politics. They have
made strides, recently even, but they
have failed to make much of an impact
A good case study for the UK Greens
on how to be environmental and still
successful is Die Grünen of Germany
who have been a force since the early
80s in West Germany.
Firstly, Die Grünen’s rise to promi-
nence was driven by an iconic and
popular ﬁgurehead. Joschka Fischer
resonated with the people through
a forthright and honest approach to
politics cutting through the PR speak
prevalent in modern politics (po-
litely describing the Vice President an
a**hole to his face and outright calling
the Americans liars when presented
with “evidence” of WMDs in Iraq).
Taking his inauguration in trainers
is still an infamous and amusing mo-
ment that most Germans will recall.
Caroline Lucas may have risen to the
status of household name in the last
three years, but she has not had the
reformed rebel charisma of Fischer.
Without such an icon a la Fischer/
Blair/Thatcher (hell, even a Johnson
or a Farage would do) then the Greens
are unlikely to be listened to in today’s
politics.
Secondly and arguably more im-
portantly, Die Grünen’s base is split
broadly into two camps, the ideologi-
cal environmentalist (the fundis) and
the model politicians who are willing
to play the game of the Bundestag to
pass legislation (the realos). They at-
tribute their success to this inherent
schism within the party. The fundis as
a party unto themselves would never
have the political nous to have an
impact on legislation, whilst a party
consisting of purely realos would in-
evitably meander away from their
principles. Together they form a party
with both a concept driven supporter-
base and the means to enact change.
In comparison, the Greens are cur-
rently fundi-only. Speaking as a scien-
tist, my ﬁrst thought when turning my
mind to the actions of the Green party
in recent years is that of Jenny Jones
threatening to go and destroy mil-
Adam Clancy Writer
POLITICS
17
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
Politics Editors: Padraic Calpin
Marie-Laure Hicks
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
lions of pounds of perfectly safe GM
research crops. The plants in question
had virtually no chance to contami-
nate the environment, and simply en-
hanced a naturally produced chemical
to ward oﬀ pests, saving farmers from
ﬂooding their land with truly damag-
ing pesticides. This was vocal fundi
environmentalist’s wailing against the
true environmentalists of this scenar-
io – the scientists.
For the record, the people who claim
all Greens are science hating luddites
are liars. However, the majority of the
Greens are people who take a diﬀer-
ent view of environmentalists to the
overwhelmingly environmentalist sci-
entiﬁc community, particularly with
regards to genetics and animal testing.
This does not make either side right,
but it does make their opinions skewed
and unrelatable to a large block of po-
tential voters. Unfortunately this is a
symptom, not the problem. The prob-
heUK’scurrentstanceonGreenpolicyismixedatbest:despiteCoalition
pledges to be the ‘Greenest Government Ever’, Cameron and Clegg have
come under repeated fire, whether over the planned ‘Dash for Gas’, or
the Tory energy minister insisting on challenging the coalition policy on
onshore Wind Farms. And yet, there’s been a spate of positive news too.
Kyoto Targets Met
In a surprising story, the Guardian reported at the end of last month that last
year, the UK actually made the biggest cuts in emissions of any EU nation, well
exceeding its Kyoto target for the year. Emissions fell 6%, driven by mild weather,
a sluggish economy and a small increase in renewables generation.
The EU as a whole is also exceeding its Kyoto target, despite individual nations
such as Spain and Italy failing to meet their personal cuts. Despite the lack of a
global deal at the 2009 Copenhagen summit, the EU is also on track to meet its
target cut of 20% by 2020 agreed three years ago.
Greenest Games Ever
The first report into the sustainability efforts of LOCOG and the 2012 Olympic
Games found that the Games are on course to meet their sustainability targets,
making them the “Greenest Ever”. As well as sending no waste to landfill and
reusing, recyling or composting 70% of all waste, 20% reductions in carbon
emissions are also on track. The report says that with better planning, even greater
reductions could have been made, but praised the efforts of the UK.
T
Padraic Calpin
UK’s Green Success
lem for the Greens is much bigger.
The Greens will never get into pow-
er. Sorry, but it’s true. They are not
Labour, they are not Tories but they
are competing in a ﬁrst-past-the-post
system. The Greens will never have
enough seats to make a diﬀerence in
our electoral system so the realos who
want to actually make a diﬀerence
don’t join the Greens, but (usually)
join Labour. This leaves a now even
less electable fundi-dominated Green
party who become less appealing to
the voting masses.
What they needed was someone
to stand up and ﬁght for an undeni-
ably superior system (the one from
Germany would be nice). What they
didn’t need was someone to try to get
PR, only to fail in such a spectacularly
pathetic manner. So for anyone who
cares about environmental politics
and bemoans the lack of a viable party
to represent these views, remember –
blame Nick Clegg
gg
blame Nick Clegg
Eco-Terrorism
lassed as the number one domestic threat in the US since 2001, eco-
terrorism is estimated to have cost $300million between 2003 and
2008. Organisations like EarthFirst!, the Earth Liberation Front (ELF),
the Animal Liberation Front, GreenPeace and PETA have been accused
of radical environmentalism and actions. Tree spiking, arson and even bombing
are methods used by environmentalist groups to express their point. Radical
environmentalists are often associated to anti-capitalism and a general belief that
capitalismandthepatriarchalsocietyareresponsiblefordamaginganddestroying
nature.
One of the most well known radical eco-groups is ELF. Founded in 1992 in
Brighton, the movement rapidly spread to the rest of the world. ELF have run an
“eco-guerrilla” in America, destroying US Forest Industries’ headquarters and
setting fire to ski resorts and houses. The movement was the centre of Operation
Backfire, started in 2004 by the FBI to stop extreme environmentalist action. ELF
hasn’t claimed attacks since 2006.
Eco-terrorism is also perceived as a threat in the UK. Environmental activists are
often under surveillance, even though no real plan has been uncovered to date.
C
Marie Laure-Hicks Politics Editor
Politics Editor
green policy special issue
Stir to Action

