LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Dutch courage
The Holland Club has closed. The
space will be redeveloped by College
and Commercial Services into some-
thing new. Apparently, everyone was
crying out for more food outlets. Din-
ner and such.
So what will become of the space,
now called Level 0? Well, Eastside 2.0
is what I hope it doesn’t become. We
already have one of those, why add
another in a slightly different location.
I also really hope someone “trendy”
doesn’t think Level 0 is a postmodern,
clever name to call it.
So, here’s a solution that I think
sounds sensible. If there was a mas-
sive need for more catering places
then why not do two things: 1. Make
what you have better and more effi-
ciently run. 2. Work with the Holland
Club to keep it there as it is and just
add pub food at lunch and dinner.
Seems like a really simple solution re-
ally. I mean, you have a pub, you want
food. It isn’t a stretch to say that you
could convert that pub into one that
serves pub food.
Apparently there wasn’t the facil-
ity for that. The obvious solution is to
tear down the place and completely
rebuild it. I’m joking, that’s not the ob-
vious solution.
To me at least, the solution is to cre-
ate the facilities you need to make
pub food (oven and stuff in other, less
grand sounding, terms than “facili-
ties”).
All that would have needed to be
done would have been to say to the
Holland Club that they have to provide
food, and then help them provide food.
College could have just worked to-
gether with the Holland Club to make
a kitchen. If the Holland Club didn’t
have the money, then College could
have paid for it and then recouped the
expenses by taking a cut of the profits
made by the Holland Club.
Yeah, it would cost the College a
penny or two, but it would have made
back the money in the end. Crucially, it
would also have meant that the whole
long affair (tempted to use the word
omnishambles) would not have been
forced to occur. Plus, it would cost a
lot less than studying, taking it down,
starting again, and then rebuilding
and running it. The added benefit to
College is that they don’t even need
to run the place: that’s done for them
by the Holland Club. They just provide
the initial funding (if needed) and then
sit back and let the money roll in back
to them. Maybe someone should do a
feasibility study on that?
Perhaps the solution would mean
that the College would feel like they
wouldn’t have a say in the matter at
all. Well, people can work together
can’t they? Plus they could stipulate
that if it starts loosing money (which
is a criteria of “success” I guess) then
they step in and change a few things.
Then there would be no closure
and no staff and students being an-
noyed, and no Club with no room.
There would be a nice pub to eat food
in for post graduates, and everyone is
a winner.
I honestly don’t see why the Holland
Club and College can’t work together
to renovate the space a bit (sorry, but
the toilets could use a bit of a refur-
bishment) and re-open it, with similar
decor and atmosphere, as the Holland
Club, but with added food at lunch
and dinner times. In fact, the doors
aren’t bolted yet, so surely there’s still
time for this?
What saddens me really is that in a
few years everyone will forget that the
Holland Club existed there. It’ll be a
mere curiosity. There’ll be no outrage
and upset then. Of course the people
in College will know that. They’ll know
that they can waltz in and no-one will
remember it years later. Build it and
they will come. People will go to it be-
cause it’s there, it’s going to be not too
expensive, and it’ll be convenient.
Time will tell if the Holland Club will
move to a new location.
Clubs & Socs POLITICS SPORT
The return... Green Policies A bumper edition
Clubs and Socs is back with
a vengance. After a brief ab-
sence, it’s back with every-
thing from Surfing Society
to International Week.
Politics have gone all
green, metaphori-
cally. They haven’t be-
come elves in prepa-
ration for Christmas.
Thisweektherearefourpag-
es of sport. Plus, some really
amazing action shots. Flip to
the back page right this sec-
ond if you think I’m lying.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>29 >>16 >>52
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross
Gray, Simon Hunter, Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt
Colvin Travel Editors Veronika McQuade, Simon Carnochan Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos
Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Al Norman, Matt Allinson, Christopher Witham Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen, Lizzy Griffiths
Female flatmate wanted. Single room, Greyhound
road, Hammersmith. £160/week excl. bills.
Tidy female, non-smoker flatmate wanted to share a spacious, comfortable
and immaculate 2 bedroom flat on Greyhound road with a very tidy, friendly
and bubbly 3rd year med student. Very easy to get on with!
Single room, newly refurbished to a high standard, fully furnished bedroom
overlooking a quiet park. Includes a shared study area (large desk and swivel
chair!), Kitchen/lounge area and recently redone bathroom.
Local shops (Sainsbury’s, Tesco, Waitrose) 3 mins away, lots of places to eat
along Fulham palace road 5 mins away, 5 mins from CX hospital,8 mins form
Barons Court (District and Piccadilly lines), 10 mins form Hammersmith sta-
tion (District, Circle, Piccadilly and Hammersmith and City lines)
Other local buses include 190, 211, 220, 295, N11, N97, 424, 430, 74, N74
£160/week excluding bills – which will be shared equally between the two
of us.
Available now
For more information or to arrange a viewing, text me on 07952503799, or
email npa10@imperial.ac.uk.
Copyright: hatchethead44

