COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
George Butcher
ight now the NUS is
congratulating itself
on a job well done.
Despite the rain it got
ten thousand students
out on the street, ﬁghts didn’t break
out, there were enough placards to go
around and the biggest cock up was
when the President, Liam Burns, was
egged and suﬀered a stage invasion by
those who don’t like the NUS’s ‘moder-
ate’ position. I’ll get to that in a minute.
But you see, I agree with tuition fees.
Not a pure, unregulated system like
America, but hear me out. The rea-
son is that I can’t see why people, who
very often haven’t had the education I
have and the beneﬁts that come with
it, should be expected to subsidise my
elite education. University education is
elitist, that’s the point of it. To educa-
tion the best, to be the best. I am the
chief beneﬁciary of my degree. Me. It’s
only fair I should be expected to pay for
cost of it.
Most of the tax paying public agree
with me. It’s why the only ones to get
upset at the latest rise, are us, people
younger than us, and all our parents
squirming as they remember be-
ing paid to go to university and then
spending their time there mostly in the
union bar.
The Demo2012 march and the NUS
have completely missed the point. Our
generation is the most hard done by
generation of recent years. Our parents
have given us a situation worse than
the one they inherited but continue to
follow policies that act like they’re the
hard done by ones.
Youth unemployment is at 21.9%,
and has been rising since 2004. House
prices have risen above inﬂation for
over thirty years pushing back the age
at which people can aﬀord to buy a
house.
We are adding to our national debt
each year and have done for 26 of the
past 32 years. This is money our par-
ents’ have chosen not to spend them-
selves, but to borrow so that their
children can pay it instead. This meant
that last year we spent £42.5 billion on
‘Debt Management’
. That’s more than
the government spent on all education.
That’s primary, secondary and uni-
versities combined. With £10 billion
to spare. You could more than double
the education budget if we didn’t have
to pay back our debts. We are the ﬁrst
generation to pay for our own educa-
tion plus interest.
On top of all of this we are also ex-
pected to spend our lifetimes paying
for the generous pension schemes that
parents’ and grandparents’ generations
have enjoyed. The current UK govern-
ment liability for pensions is £5 Tril-
lion. This has to be paid by somebody,
and that somebody is any future UK
tax payer. Old age pension payments
this year were £85 billion.
We are also expected to pay for the
government’s PFI scheme, which is
a form of ‘oﬀ balance sheet’ borrow-
ing used to fund projects such as new
schools currently standing at more
than £35 billion. That’s right, it is of-
ﬁcial government policy to make stu-
dents pay for their own new school
plus interest, typically at 8%.
This all makes me very angry and it
should make you angry too. Unfortu-
nately there’s no one to shout it because
the NUS is full of communists who all
want us to sit around campﬁres for a
living and “Tax the rich”. If you want se-
rious thought on the future of Britain’s
youth, I’d go to a daycare centre before
I went anywhere near the NUS. This
is the same organisation that egged its
own President for being too moderate.
If you want to see how ‘moderate’ this
guy is, I suggest you read one of his In-
dependent blog posts, though you may
have to avoid being sick over the bad
grammar and clichés.
Redistribute wealth if you want to,
but not from kids.
R
Luke Sheldon
Totally shambolic policing tactics
s the ﬁrst students pay-
ing £9,000 fees have
started this term the
ﬁght against fees and
cuts to education hit the
streets again this Wednesday. Whilst
the last National Union of Students
(NUS) march two years ago saw the
destruction of Tory HQ on Millbank,
the ﬁre that ignited from this and saw
50 universities enter occupation and
a number of self-organised national
demonstrations has died down. Cyni-
cally this is probably why the NUS felt
it was safe to organise another demo,
with out fearing the “embarrassment”
of people directing their own move-
ment.
The stated reasons for the march
“Educate. Empower. Employ.”, were
not exactly inspiring. A number of
people retaliated to this focus on em-
ployment being the goal of education
with the largest amount of anti-work
banners that I’ve seen at a demo. And
the split was not just in reasons for
marching, but in the actual march as
well. Whilst the NUS march left from
embankment over 1000 students were
rallying at UCL to make their own
route and take action to bring about
free education.
With samba, lots of rowdy Scots and
plans to target establishments that
embody the growing proﬁteering from
higher education we set oﬀ. Though
unfortunately the Met police’s so-
called “total policing” prevented an-
other Millbank. Every side street was
ﬁlled with police and draconian orders
were put in place so anyone leaving
the route could be arrested. The group
was surrounded and we were escorted
dejectedly to the NUS march.
People may think the focus on events
outside the march is a strange place for
this comment, but that has been what
has made the student and anti-cuts
movement an exciting place. People
have said how the events at Millbank
inspired them to come out and stand
up for free education. It is what made
the student movement interesting
enough to reach out to the inner city
youth who were a main contingent of
fees protests nationally, furious at the
contempt shown by this government.
The actions were also the reason that
the coalition dropped all attempts to
bring in the higher education white-
paper, a crude piece of legislation to
allow the wide-spread privatisation
and sell-oﬀ of universities. Obviously
they were too scared to have another
battle with students in this parliament.
However, over the last year the anti-
cuts movement has been ground down
through suﬀocating policing and Her
Majesty’s ﬁnest were on top form
this week. Although physical harass-
ment occurred with police throwing
random punches at protestors merely
walking along Embankment, batons
stayed in their waistbands and riot
police kept their robo-cop helmets out
of sight. Instead the very real threat of
arrest and the shear number of police
were used to suppress anything that
could ignite and inspire further pro-
test. One protestor remarked as the
multiple lines of police were backed
up by further rows of police horses
near parliament, “look at the health of
our great democracy”.
We profess to give voice to our citi-
zens but yet turn a blind eye to the
increasing oppression of students
who try and raise their voice. With
Alﬁe Meadows, almost killed by riot
police in Parliament Square in 2010,
still harassed through the courts two
years later on trumped up charges of
violent disorder the cost of protest is
becoming too dear. How can you in-
vite friends and spread the word about
protests when at the best they are
dull due to police numbers, but at the
worst the normal living of their lives
is at risk.
We stopped in front of Parliament,
facing a myriad of fences, vans, horses
and angry police (with a surprising
number appearing to take Movem-
ber very seriously). This was merely
symbolic. Whereas two years ago
people were forcibly kettled here,
now we stayed here, willingly ket-
tling our selves chanting “We are all
Alﬁe Meadows”. This sounds stupid,
but there was literally nothing else to
do but walk miles into South London
(the oﬃcial march route) in the pour-
ing rain.
Although the lack of democracy
seemed to bring a cloud of depression
over many of the students, the pure
hatred of the NUS was beautiful. The
National Campaign Against Fees and
Cuts, rightly still feeling betrayed by
NUS joyfully waved a “smash NUS”
banner. They were hounded on Twit-
ter for dragging people on a wet trek
through South London. And ﬁnally
the NUS president, Liam Burns, was
egged by a baying crowd of 200 who
invaded the stage where he hoped he
would address his loyal subjects. How-
ever I must own up I never got that far.
Although the student movement is
not currently what it was in 2010, the
ﬁght is still going on for a truly free
education. On December the 5th stu-
dents will be taking to the streets again
in a number of local actions showing
that we won’t just march – watch out
for events in London!
All I wanna do is *ching* and take your money!
A
The right to protest is being violated by those whose job it is to defend it
We should pay for our own education – and our parents should have paid for theirs

