ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Warhol Factory Party @ A Secret Location – This special night dedicated to
the memory of the great man is hosted by Die Freche Muse. This promices to be
a wild night of art, music and gender bending weirdness (also Iggy Pop). 30 No-
vember, £15
Viral Research @ Whitechapel Galley – Rare work from the private Collection San-
dretto Re Rebaudengo featuring Charles Ray and Piotr Uklanski. 15 December- 10
March
The Perfect Place to Grow @ The Royal College of Art – The RCA is 175 this year.
If you haven’t caught this already the show celebrates the institution’s long and
illustrious history. 16 November- 3 January 2013.
Unhinged Festival @ Electric Brixton – On tonight, this cult show features break-
ing artists from across the music, film, fashion, visual & performing arts worlds all
in a dance club setting - £12 before 11pm, £15 after.
The Dark Earth and the Light Sky @ Almeida Theatre – This is only appearing in
Tired of Life to counter the positive reviews this morbidly dull play has been re-
ceiving. The best lines in the whole thing were, in fact, written by the poet, Ed-
ward Thomas, on whose life this centred. Production wasn’t terrible either.
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your draw-
ings to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle is by Ioanna Kalogeraki.
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
30
Pinero’s The Magistrate is a classic
of 19th Century farce. It concerns a
woman with a son from a previous
marriage, who has to conceal her
real age from a recently acquired
husband, the magistrate. This means
a 19 year old son, along with every-
one else, are convinced he is actually
5 years younger than he is. Through
that deceit, the farce brought all the
characters together to a supper room
where they were found contravening
the licensing laws by the police. The
subsequent fallout concerning repu-
tation and social standing occupies
the last two acts with a few romantic
storylines thrown in for good meas-
ure.
As Victorian farces go, it was a
pretty standard aﬀair. Although con-
sistently funny, it was hardly laugh-
out-loud. Considering this was only
put on as a replacement for the can-
celled The Count of Monte Cristo,
one can understand why this may
not have been a polished perfor-
mance, but there was suﬃcient mag-
ic to create an energetic, colourful,
uplifting and funny production, that
they managed to achieve a delightful
result.
The set design, by Katrina Lindsay,
was dramatic. The opening scene
unfolded like a giant pastel coloured
pop-up book with characters magi-
cally appearing from the folded pag-
es. There is the hint of a Christmas
tree on one side of the stage to re-
mind us this is the National’s Christ-
mas production and a little caption
beginning with ‘the skeleton in the
closet’ at the top of the “page”, which
A farce in
the wind
Christopher Hong Writer comprised the ﬁrst scene. Subtle it
is not, but along with all the skewed
angles of doorways and windows
the set design suited the caricatured
characters throughout the play; from
the man-child son, to the gloomy
magistrate’s assistant.
This caricatured theme continued
with a fusillade of jokes delivered
with a knowing nod-and-a-wink.
Scene changes were interspersed
with 19th century operetta-style
numbers which summarised the sto-
ryline with wit and small self-refer-
ential details.
The cast was excellent, with John
Lithgow playing the magistrate; the
highlight a superb solo scene where
he recounts a chase, playing every-
thing from the police to a horse. If
there was ever a master-class in one-
person theatre, I would nominate
this scene.
Joshua Mcguire, as the son of a
confused age, was superb, showing
the perfect balance between preco-
ciousness and prescribed childish-
ness and the natural urges of a grown
man.
The direction by Thimothy Sheader
was tight and kept up a pace and en-
ergy. My only criticism was a slight
dip in the middle of Act 3 but it soon
gave way to a frantic ﬁnal act.
This was theatre production at its
very best: bringing superb direction,
acting and production design to-
gether. There will not be many pro-
ductions out there to brighten up the
dark winter nights ahead as accom-
plished and satisfying as this.
The Magistrate at The National The-
atre. Until 22nd January 2013.
Whatcha doin?
Just Roman
around
Eva Rosenthal Arts Editor
The luminous setting, sand trickling
from the ceiling onto the stage into
pools of light, was melancholy and se-
renity personiﬁed. The existence of the
characters, who would soon be par-
ticipating in the tragedy, was mirrored,
somehow with tenderness,in the envi-
ronment that had been created. It was
an environment ﬁt for observation and
for immersion, the audience entirely
surrounding a small stage; a single
room for Racine’s unhappy creations.
The tragedy in this play is not reli-
ant on death or treason or madness,
except perhaps on the folly of love. But
it is tragedy nonetheless and in many
ways just as brutal as any relying on
death would be.
Titus has become Emperor of Rome.
His love, Berenice, is an eastern Queen,
whom the Romans will never accept as
wife for their new Caesar. Titus must
ask her to leave or face the coming
wrath of the people. Their, as yet unut-
tered, demand is not however, a sug-
gestion of the cruel ignorance of the
masses; it is rather a darkness that will
overcome Berenice almost completely.
Anne-Marie Duﬀ is moving and ex-
pressive in the title role (although she
slouches too much for a queen) and
her Titus, Stephen Campbell Moore,
with desperation in his eyes, is con-
vincingly the unwilling tyrant to his
own soul.
It must be diﬃcult to keep Racine’s
purity in an English translation, but
the language at least never disturbs.
If my attention was kept on the whole
rather than on the quality of the words,
this was more a testament to the very
beautiful staging.
I have read that the English often
ﬁnd Racine boring: perhaps this is
due to bad translations or because
Racine’s classicism is very diﬀerent to
Shakespeare. However in the Donmar
Warehouse’s Berenice, even the most
embittered of audiences could hardly
fail to be moved by the lovers, facing
with stoicism, an eternity of loneliness.
Until 24th November only!
Fancy giving me a little Caesar
Shit,shit, shit! I forgot my costume
© Johan Persson

