“
Guitar is an instrument
commonly synony-
mous with rock, yet it is
the sole guide through
Chris Forsyth’s musi-
cal studies
MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
35
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
AMS album of the week
Björk: bastards
Afterreturningtothelimelightwiththeworld’s
firstappalbum,Biophilia,Björkhascontinuedher
traditionofremixalbumswiththeaffectionately
namedbastards.It’srefreshingtoseeanartistso
accomplishedactuallyacknowledgingtheremix
effortsofothermusicians,asopposedtojustusing
themasB-sidefiller.
However,beingacompilationofremixes,the
albumcertainlydoesnotflowinanysortofenjoy-
ableway.Listeningtothemostlyuntouchedvocals
ofthesamesongsoverandovergetsannoying,evenforamassiveBjörkfangirllike
myself.Idon’treallygetitspurpose,seeingasalloftheseremixeswerepreviously
released,andmostofthemcanbefoundintheexcessivelyexpensiveBiophilia
RemixSeries,whichconsistsof8(!!)12”records.Nevertheless,Iaminclinedtothink
thatit’smoreofanexhaustionofartdirectionthanamoneyspinner.
SpecialmentionmustgotoOmar Souleyman’sremixesofboth‘Crystalline’,
whichopensthealbum,and‘Thunderbolt’,furtherdownthetracklist.Ifyou’ve
neverheardArabmusic,you’reinforatreat,asbothtracksarewonderfullyfunand
meshwellwithBjörk’svocals.
Contrarytohisrecentclubbangerendeavours, Hudson Mohawke’sremixof
‘Virus’isalushslowburner.Despitethefactthattheoriginalisperfectinevery
way(yes,it’safact),thisremixreallyisatestamenttothediversityofHudson
Mohawke’stalent.Forthoseseekingabitmore“wob”,Current Value’sremixof
‘Solstice’providesjustthis,albeitinanangrycommercialdubstepkindaway.
Anotherhighlightistheincrediblywellmaderemixof‘MutualCore’byThese
New Puritans,featuringabeautifulsamplefromtraditionalmusicoftheSolomon
Islands.Aperhapslessimaginativebutstillenjoyableremixof‘MutualCore’by
experimentalelectronicmusicianMatthew Herbertalsoappearsonbastards,
alongsidehisglitchystrippedbackremixof‘Crystalline’.
IfeelthatbastardshasnoconceptualrelationtoBiophilia,andthethemesof
natureandtechnologyhavebeencompletelylostintheremixingprocess.Itmustbe
saidthattheseremixeshavemorebodytothemthantheiroriginals,butalotlessof
thecarefullycrafteddelicatenessmasteredbyBjörk.
Yasmin Malik
BESURENOTTOMISS
Ever since I ﬁrst discovered his mu-
sic, Chris Forsyth has been one of
my favourite musicians. A psych rock
guitarist, he proved himself worthy
to support Grouper due to his use of
drone and a thirst for experimental-
ism, but he elegantly balanced this
with some more conventional use of
the guitar not unlike blues, folk or
even bluegrass in places.
After seeing him perform a hypnotic
and enveloping set I set about getting
my hands on all the material I could,
admittedly not very much. I did, how-
ever, immensely enjoy his 2011 album
Paranoid Cat and this year’s krauty
collaboration with Koen Holtkamp.
Forsyth performs live with a band, but
in the studio the experience is quite
diﬀerent. The drums are completely
absent. This makes Forsyth’s music
a much more distant relative of tra-
ditional rock and in a way that’s why
his music is so interesting. Guitar is
an instrument commonly synony-
mous with rock, yet it is the sole guide
through Chris Forsyth’s musical stud-
ies. The very instrument that gave rise
to the musical decadence of shred, to
the indulgence of simple cock-rock
riﬀs here sheds its baggage; becoming
instead a source of ambient, minimal
soundscapes that hark back to the
past of guitar, its roots in blues and
folk with a nod to today’s more experi-
mental ideas of music.
On ‘Kenzo Deluxe,’ this is in full
swing. Opener ‘The First Ten Min-
utes of Cocksucker Blues’ syncs up
with the infamous documentary of
The Rolling Stones’ tour to support
Exile on Main Street. Its bluesy sound
frames the musical context of such
work, while surpassing it in terms of
thought and much like this one, every
track is as much a study in guitar, what
it can do and its cultural landscape as
it is a great track on a chillout album.
This is an album where guitar truly
reigns supreme. In tracks such as the
opener, he shows how to be rhythmi-
cally astute without a drummer, as a
catchy riﬀ repeats under melodies and
solos with a bluesy tone and occasion-
ally a bluegrass style twang to them.
This song is similar to a later track
‘East Kensington Run Down,’ not in
its sound but in its structure. Both
develop a groove using a simple riﬀ
that remains unchanged, modulating
only slightly as the sonic environment
around it evolves, acting as the vehicle
for the musical journey of the melo-
dies. Until, that is, the songs break
down in to a much less rigid form.
A personal favourite of mine is ‘Bos-
ton St Lullaby no. 2.’ This is by some
An Education in Guitar
Riaz Agahi dissects Chris Forsyth’s latest album
distance the most dissonant and dis-
torted. I would regard it as Forsyth’s
take on drone, with ebbing and ﬂow-
ing sounds of a distorted and melodic
guitar, drenched in reverb and layered
over itself. It has an almost rugged na-
ture with a billowing drone of distor-
tion underneath the melody, and per-
haps it is ironic that it is the moment
where he oﬀsets ugly and beautiful
where we see perhaps the most beau-
tiful moment of the album, as a higher
and more ethereal notes pass over the
drone like core of the track leaving an
air of euphoria.
More melodic pieces, ambient,
ornate soundscapes are found on
‘Downs and Ups’ and ‘Boston St Lull-
aby no.1,’ the album’s more reﬂective
pieces. ‘Downs and Ups’, in particu-
lar, makes me think of America two
hundred years in the past, with its
low tech, barren and insistent melody.
These tracks are relaxing and while
probably not the best on the album are
worthwhile listens, be it to chill out or
because they’re simply good guitar
performances.
And at the end of the day, that’s
what this album is. I could wax lyrical
about how it’s a statement on cultural
stuﬀ or where it might ﬁt into musi-
cal tradition or the diﬀerent genres he
experiments with, but at the end of the
day it’s just a guy and his guitar, and
in a way that is the most ﬂattering it
can get. Forsyth shows his immense
talent but also his years of experience
with an instrument he clearly loves
and gives an album that, were it better
known, would be a landmark not only
for him but for the guitar in general.
”
le guide through
guide through
Forsyth’s musi-
Forsyth’s musi-
dies
dies
DJ Nature
Plastic People
Saturday
With Sam Shepherd a.k.a. Floating
Points away in the southern hemi-
sphere his monthly Plastic People
residency has been left in the hands of
DJ Nature. And a more capable hands
you’d struggle to ﬁnd. Finding his way
into the music world through the Bris-
tol hip hop scene in the 80’s, Nature
moved to New York before leaving
music for 15 years.
Expect serious selection of disco
and house spanning the past four dec-
ades. And best of all? It’s only £6 be-
fore 11pm (or £8 after).
Sudden Infant/KK Null/
Spoils and Relics
Cafe Oto
Tuesday
Aktionist Joke Lanz, in his Sudden
Infant guise, brings a harsh cacopho-
ny of noise to your unsuspecting ears
this Tuesday at Cafe Oto. Hugely pro-
liﬁc in the world where performance
art meets noise, Joke Lanz has been
terrifying audiences with body con-
tacts, loops and feedback since 1985
in various acts, possibly most notably
Schimpﬂuch-Gruppe with 3 other
European noise terrorists.
Japanese noise master KK Null of
Zeni Geva should oﬀer a Japanoise
contrast to the Euro-centric noise of
Lanz. Spoils and Relics also contrib-
ute support.
Hype Williams
Tufnell Park Dome
Saturday
In typical Hype Williams style, this
gig is not only North London (they’re
way too cool for East London) but also
door tickets only. In my desperation
to see a guy and a girl produce an un-
predictable live show, that I’ve been
assured is often far noisier than their
records and which shall surely involve
female bodybuilders using axle grind-
ers under constant strobe lighting, I
shall be queuing for at least an hour
before doors, completely destroying
any hope of my standardly debauched
Saturday night. I strongly advise that
you do the same.

