FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
ﬁlm.felix@imperial.ac.uk
36 FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
The Master:
Pros: A big winner at this year’s Venice Film Festival, scooping up the Best Actor
and Best Director awards, Paul Thomas Anderson’s latest drama loosely based
on the foundation of Scientology as well as its leader has its awards momentum
fully going for it, as the critics cannot stop talking about the wonderful visuals,
the powerful storytelling, as well as its two impressive lead performances. Plus
Anderson is known for being the most dynamic, modern Hollywood director.
Cons: It’s not the most accessible ﬁlm around, and its excessive ambiguity as
well as Anderson’s trademark style isn’t to everyone’s taste. Some have called
this “opaque” and its lack of wide appeal may hurt its chances, like it has for
many of Anderson’s previous ﬁlms.
Lincoln:
Pros: Compared to the one where Lincoln goes around killing vampires, Steven
Spielberg’s more serious adaptation will of course stand out, and with Daniel
Day-Lewis’ performance of the President already generating buzz as well as a
healthy dose of fascinating historical drama, this has Oscars written all over
it. That Lincoln is surrounded by a batch of superb supporting players (Oscar-
winning Sally Field and Tommy Lee Jones to name a couple) also boosts its
credentials.
Cons: Spielberg has attracted his share of detractors over the years, with some
not appreciating his overuse of sap in order to sell a story. It’s been more than 10
years since he won an Oscar, maybe the voters are trying to tell him something.
Les Miserables:
Pros: An adaptation of the grand, big-scale musical that took the world’s stage
by storm, it’s ﬁlled with big names (Hugh Jackman, Russell Crowe, Anne Hatha-
way, Helena Bonham Carter, Amanda Seyfried), big tunes and big sets. Have you
SEEN the trailer? Even hearing the songs ﬁlls you with inspiration and tingling
goose bumps. Under the steady guidance of Tom Hooper (The King’s Speech)
this could be another musical to absolutely sweep the board come Oscar time.
Cons: This is the ﬁrst musical ﬁlm where the cast sings everything live. Sure
it may sound authentic, but these actors, some who aren’t necessarily trained
singers, could botch the job, and there’s nothing more excruciating than listen-
ing to beloved songs butchered on screen.
Life of Pi:
Pros: “Based on a best-selling novel” is always a good place to start if you want
to score something big and catch everyone’s attention, and Ang Lee certainly
has, with his latest mystical adventure. A director with keen eyes for stunning
visuals, Lee seems to have held nothing back in recreating the immense fantasy
world of a young man on a spiritual journey after a shipwreck. Reviews from
various ﬁlm festivals have so far been positive, which bodes well for the future.
Cons: Films based on books always have that challenge of living up to the hype
of the original book lovers. The rule that books are always better than ﬁlms have
only scarcely been proven wrong, and given the large fan-base for its novel,
Lee’s ﬁlm has a lot to live up to.
Zero Dark Thirty:
Pros: Kathryn Bigelow, the ﬁrst and so far only female director to have won a
Best Director Oscar, follows up 2009’s The Hurt Locker with another war ﬁlm set
in the Middle East. This time the subject matter is one that everyone will be fa-
miliar with: the hunt and eventual capture of Osama Bin Laden. With this kind
of exciting premise, there will be tension, there will be action, and there will be
blood, something Bigelow is more than capable of delivering in full potential.
Cons: It’s rare for someone to have two consecutive hits like this. No matter
how well the ﬁlm turns out to be, Bigelow and her ﬁlm may have to sit this one
out to give room for others. The December limited release is a good sign, but
will that give this enough push?
Silver Linings Playbook:
Pros: Ever since its debut at the 2012 Toronto International Film Festival, this
has been winning awards left and right, with both the critics and audiences
warming up to the crowd-pleasing dramedy starring a strong ensemble of excel-
lent actors. Jennifer Lawrence in particular has been highlighted for her gutsy
portrayal of a struggling widow with a touch of craziness, whereas David O.
Russell’s balanced, sensible script dealing with mental illness is also attracting
praise.
Cons: The awards race is still in the very early stages, with some heavy dramas
being released later this year to perhaps subdue the hype surrounding this one.
It now needs to do well ﬁnancially; otherwise this will disappear into obscurity.
Beasts of the Southern Wild:
Pros: There is always that one or two Sundance hit that manages to squeeze in
the Best Picture nominations list and if there were any this year, this would be
more than deserving of that honour. Touching, funny, magical, intense, ﬁrst-
time director Benh Zeitlin’s incredible achievement through his imaginative
writing that knows no bounds is one of, if not THE year’s best. The world seen
through the eyes of a brave six-year-old girl is a thing of wonder and beauty.
Cons: Timing is always key when it comes to playing the awards season game,
and the fact that this has been around for months doesn’t count as a positive
thing. And not everyone was sold on the ﬁlm’s charm, criticising the ﬁlm’s lack
of ultimate sense and structure.
Argo:
Pros: Ben Aﬄeck, who has reinvented himself as a serious director after two
successful features, has created a real crowd-pleasing knock-out – about how
an insane CIA operation actually worked and saved 6 Americans from the Ira-
nian hostage crisis. Everyone loves a bit of self-congratulation, but why this has
really connected with audiences is Aﬄeck’s unquestionable talent in mounting
nail-biting tension. The most exciting movie event of the year deserves a spot.
Cons: The feel-good element is a bit of a double-edged sword – they may cheer
during the ﬁlm, the box oﬃce receipts may rack up, but looking back on the
ﬁlm, the voters might not be so kind as time goes by, as the ﬁlm’s shallow sim-
plicity may become apparent.
Django Unchained:
Pros: Quentin Tarantino is back, and it looks like he’s directed yet another bonk-
ers, violent mayhem – something he has expert knowledge in. It features expert
performances from Jamie Foxx, Leonardo DiCpario and Christoph Waltz, who
isn’t at all unfamiliar with working with Tarantino, having scored awards glory
with Inglourious Basterds. This time, it’s a brutal Western about a slave-turned-
bounty hunter looking to rescue his wife from a ruthless plantation owner.
Cons: Tarantino is known for his uninhibited, unﬂinching directing style, and
with that can have a fair number of critics who wouldn’t warm to his style. His
ﬁlms have never been awarded the top gong at the Oscars, and his bad luck may
continue this year, as he won’t change for anyone.
Academy
Award
Anticipation
The Oscar race is now officially on – be-
cause we say it is. Summer’s over, and
slowlybutsurely,thestudiosareangling
their release dates to coincide with the
many voting deadlines that have been
put in place for next year’s Oscars. Fe-
lix Film wishes everyone the best of
luck, and may the odds be ever in their
favour...
(And yes, there are some shocking
omissions from this list. Big no-nos to
The Dark Knight Rises, Magic Mike, Sky-
fall, The Hunger Games, The Best Exotic
Marigold Hotel, among others)
John Park gives the pros and cons for
each of those that may be in the running

