FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
37
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
Amour:
Pros: Winning the Palme d’Or is always a good sign, although it’s not always an
automatic guarantee of success in the States. Michael Haneke has once again di-
rected something shockingly unbiased and brutally honest – looking at ageing,
and the tough processes that go along with it. It’s a tender, moving watch, star-
ring a couple of well-matched French acting veterans, Jean-Louis Trintignant,
and Emmanuelle Riva, in a heart-breaking performance.
Cons: Essentially it’s about an eighty-year-old woman who is slowly but surely
dying so a big crowd-pleaser this isn’t. And it’s a French ﬁlm – foreign lan-
guage ﬁlms very rarely get their chance to shine, and The Artist is just a bouncy,
anomalous exception to that rule.
Hitchcock:
Pros: A well-executed biopic always goes down well and one about the Master
of Suspense Alfred Hitchcock should do even better. Based on the director’s
diﬃcult relationship with his wife Alma, the ﬁlm looks at how Hitchcock came
about the story of Psycho and made arguably the greatest thriller in the history
of cinema. A commanding set of performances from Oscar-winning Anthony
Hopkins and Helen Mirren should also enhance its appealing qualities.
Cons: It has been noted that this is a simple, fun ride rather than a deep insight
into the man himself. Hitchcock still remains an enigma to the industry, and
this breezy, shallow portrayal might not be enough to wow the voters when
there is much stiﬀ competition.
Promised Land:
Pros: It’s about a man battling his conscience (the Oscar favourite character)
and it also includes a big, bad, corrupt, environmentally unfriendly company,
with a small town of good honest people going up against it in an almost unwin-
nable ﬁght. These all sum up to become only one thing: Oscar bait – not that
there’s anything wrong with that. And with a cast this good (Matt Damon, John
Krasinski, Frances McDormand, Rosemarie DeWitt), things are looking bright.
Cons: Compared to other ﬁlms on this list, the buzz as of now is surprisingly
minimal, with only a single trailer released to promote the ﬁlm. Perhaps this is
part tactical, but the clock is ticking, and it needs a killer set of reviews for this
to join the main race with the others.
Anna Karenina:
Pros: No-one does costume dramas better than Joe Wright, who enjoyed im-
mense success with Pride and Prejudice with Atonement. Here he is again with
his bold new adaptation of Leo Tolstoy’s timeless, beloved novel. Keira Knight-
ley is radiant in the role of a female heroine not particularly easy to like, and as
is the case with most costume dramas, the stunning, lavish artworks, ranging
from production design to costumes, are simply divine.
Cons: Too much visual style over a noticeable lack of substance? Not everyone
was sold on Wright’s theatrical stab at the story and compared to his other work
that caught the attention of the Academy, this one does sadly fall short to truly
make its mark in the Oscar race.
Moonrise Kingdom:
Pros: This delightfully charming Cannes opener received rave reviews in a town
not so full of cheery men (Cannes’ audiences and critics aren’t afraid of express-
ing their views – they do often boo the hell out of a ﬁlm) and was hailed as one
of Wes Anderson’s best. An eccentric mix of childhood warmth and the usual
quirky humour you can expect from any Anderson’s ﬁlms, here is a sweet tale of
immature love between a couple of pre-pubescent children.
Cons: It’s been out since May, so the interest surrounding this is ﬁzzling to say
the least, and although he’s a talented ﬁlmmaker, Anderson has never had much
success with the Academy, and none of his ﬁlms have ever been nominated for
the Best Picture category. Scandalous, but true.
The Hobbit:
Pros: Peter Jackson is the man responsible for the fantasy trilogy epic, Lord of
the Rings. And for him to stand behind the cameras to helm the prequel tril-
ogy must have been a dream come true for fans of the franchise out there. Ian
McKellen is also back in the crucial role as Gandalf as he leads Bilbo Baggins
(Martin Freeman), a brave little Hobbit, on an unforgettable quest. Andy Serkis
is also back playing Gollum (give this man his much deserving Oscar already).
Cons: Jackson has set the bar insanely high with his previous trilogy, and the
phenomenal hype surrounding the ﬁlm may have a negative impact on the ﬁlm
as a whole. And with a single book that’s been split into a trilogy, the ﬁrst feature
may be a dull build-up of better things to come.
The Sessions:
Pros: Another Indie smash-hit to come out of Sundance 2012, it features with-
out a doubt the most memorable on-screen couple of this year, as a man con-
ﬁned to an iron lung (John Hawkes) attempts to learn more about sex and lose
his virginity with the help of a sex surrogate (Helen Hunt). The direction is sen-
sitive enough to probe carefully around the area, but the ﬁlm’s not short on its
healthy dose of laughter, and this feel-good ﬁlm should go a very long way.
Cons: Too cheery for the Academy? The voters have been steering towards the
feel-good genre for the past couple of years (The Artist, The King’s Speech) but
this also deals with the taboo, hush-hush subject of sex – something that could
deﬁnitely hurt the ﬁlm’s chances.
The Impossible:
Pros: Its trailer is powerful enough to make certain people cry, so one can only
imagine what the eﬀects of the full-length feature will have on the big screen.
The story of survival is often an Oscar favourite, whilst throwing in the concept
of “family bond” will elevate the grandeur of this true story of a family caught in
the Indian Tsunami even more. This kind of electrifying intensity will be hard to
ignore, and the emotional payoﬀ will most certainly be memorable.
Cons: Not everyone is sold on the soapy, sappy, over-dramatised, tear-jerking
story of blatant audience manipulation, and the harsh, cynical critics (who
could be amongst the voters, who knows) will not take nicely to the kind story
that’s really been told many times over.
Cloud Atlas:
Pros: No-one can deny the ambition that has gone into this project – this
3-hour long ﬁlm covers six interwoven stories that take place over 500 years,
the star-studded cast plays various characters over diﬀerent time frames, each
individual plot is a gripping, thought-provoking one, and the eye-catching visu-
als are simply stunning to look at. Oh, and this is also based on a best-selling
novel. Another box ticked to legitimately enter the Oscar race.
Cons: The critics are sharply divided over this one – many didn’t appreciate
its length, some found the awkward casting to be quite problematic, the struc-
ture slightly all over the place and messy, and its core message not quite clear
enough. And this isn’t making money = bad sign.
Flight:
Pros: Focusing on one man’s self-destructive pathway as he’s accused of drink-
ﬂying (he’s a pilot who’s been drinking), Robert Zemeckis’ return to live-action
ﬁlms in quite some time has been described as a fascinating character study,
with the ever-so excellent Denzel Washington competently taking on the lead
role. His performance is almost a deadlock for a nomination at least, which
could also mean good things for the ﬁlm he’s starring in.
Cons: Although Washington is at the centre of much praise, same cannot be
said for the ﬁlm itself. Like many addiction dramas, the conventional structure
as well as its repetitive cycle of a broken protagonist overcoming obstacles for
eventual redemption is a touch too familiar.
Rust and Bone:
Pros: A stirring romantic drama that looks at the complexities of a relationship
with damaged (both physically and mentally) individuals, Marion Cotillard and
Matthias Schoenaerts shine in their diﬃcult roles without resorting to any mel-
odrama. Jacques Audiard, director of the much-acclaimed A Prophet carries on
his successful streak, and he has already scored a big win at this year’s London
Film Festival, where his work was awarded the Best Film prize.
Cons: It’s foreign, which will automatically work against the ﬁlm’s odds, plus
it’s not exactly the easiest ﬁlm to sit through, a negative feature not made any
less diﬃcult by its length and a script that seems to slightly drag with its many
complications that arise.
Killing Them Softly:
Pros: It’s possibly one of the best-scripted ﬁlms of the year, with so many clever
parallels to politics and world economics all the while telling the story of a heist
gone wrong with professional gunslingers coming in to handle the messy situa-
tion. The dense, very wordy chunks of dialogue are spoken smoothly by the ace
male cast (not a single signiﬁcant female appears here) and even without bullets
and blood, it’s one of this year’s most compelling.
Cons: Audiences expecting the brooding Brad Pitt to wave his gun around
shooting everyone are in for a sore disappointment, and will therefore lead to
backlash over the ﬁlm’s more text-heavy approach. Andrew Dominik’s ﬁlms are
calm and subtle, and may suﬀer as a result.

