“I may disagree with the law but I will enforce it”
John Park Film Editor
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
38 FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
Although costing a relatively minis-
cule 7-million dollars, here is one of
the best, most thrilling, heart-pound-
ing action thrillers of the year. It also
achieves this level of greatness in a
sub-genre that is more often than not
plagued with its own brand of clichés
and predictable plot turns. But with
End of Watch director David Ayer has
made even the most obvious, tiresome
formula with such style and panache
that you will come out of the screening
feeling richly rewarded and your pulses
racing. It knows when to hold oﬀ on the
action, it lets its characters develop and
interact with one another, the dialogue
is often sharp and witty, and when the
much-anticipated ultimate shoot-out
does grace the screen, it pays oﬀ, in its
kinetic, resounding ﬁnale.
It starts oﬀ and does try its best to
maintain its consistency to look and
sound like the “found footage” type of
ﬁlm. We see Brian Taylor (Gyllenhaal),
a junior oﬃcer in the LAPD ﬁlming his
daily police activities for a class he is at-
tending. Whatever the excuse, the for-
mat works well as we follow the many
long drives he and his close friend and
partner Mike Zavala (Pena) share dur-
ing their shifts. A lot of their days con-
sist of the two of them driving around
in their squad car, patrolling the neigh-
bourhood as the two best friends casu-
ally trade insults and cheeky swipes at
one another.
Gyllenhaal and Pena inhabit the roles
as if they’ve been doing this for years,
and the ﬁlm has done well in securing
these two actors and setting them up
against one another. The fast-paced,
humourous interplay between the two
comes in incredibly handy as there is
no shortage of aspects to enjoy even
when there is a lack of bullets ﬂying
across the scene. But make no mistake
in thinking they’re the corrupt, arro-
gant cops who run wild ﬂashing their
police badges. These two, along with
the rest of their department, made up
of similarly determined and serious-
minded cops (both male and female),
take their job and duty to serve and
protect in the most genuine, honest
way that they would lay down their
lives without any hesitation.
Further building on their character
before anything signiﬁcant happens is
the development of their other halves.
Brian seems to be in between sev-
eral women, whereas Mike has a wife.
Things get certainly more amusing for
Mike when Brian ﬁnds “the girl” in the
form of Janet (Kendrick). Here we are
given occasional breaks that see them
out of their uniforms, where they go
about the normal day-to-day lives,
dealing with love, marriage, pregnancy,
a newborn baby etc. The two women,
Kendrick and Martinez (Mike’s wife)
provide a welcome fresh air in the
midst of some of the heavier, darker
side of the ﬁlm and they have their own
moments of priceless addition to the
more charming side of the nicely bal-
anced script.
As the two dutifully go about their
patrols, they seize a handful of drugs,
money, gold-painted weapons, and
even free some victims of human traf-
ﬁcking. And in doing so they alert the
local Mexican cartel who aren’t all
that enthusiastic about two eager cops
messing with their business. And so
the threats begin to mount, as it be-
comes all too clear that they are no
longer safe.
Every so often we get treated to loud,
intense action sequences, that come
with plenty of bursts of energy, and,
as they are saved up for more crucial
scenes, their presence feels more sig-
niﬁcant. This is also where the docu-
mentary style takes the backseat and
this allows more room for the director
to play around with as he can capture
the thrilling events at various angles
where Brian Taylor’s recording cam-
eras aren’t necessarily there. It’s slightly
cheating of course, but the feel of the
“found footage” piece, its tight, narrow
shots, the carefully controlled chaotic
atmosphere are all still very much pre-
sent, and the slight rule-bending turns
out to be a massive plus, especially in
the ﬁlm’s climax.
The emotionally charged ﬁnish, the
powerful punch in the end, comes
thanks to the two outstanding per-
formances and their ability to make
us believe everything they say, do and
stand for. This is probably as raw, real,
and involving as a cop drama can ever
get, and for such an elusive line of
workplace, we get a more than decent
insight into what may be involved in
what these men and women in uni-
form get up to in order to protect their
districts.
End of Watch
Director: David Ayer
Screenwriter: David Ayer
Starring: Jake Gyllenhaal, Michael
Pena, Anna Kendrick, Frank Grillo,
America Ferrera, Natalie Martinez
John Park Film Editor
Silver Linings Playbook
Director: David O. Russell
Screenwriters: David O. Russell,
Matthew Quick (novel)
Starring: Bradley Cooper, Jennifer
Lawrence, Robert De Niro, Jacki
Weaver
Oh you...
Why don’t you play with yourself
For a man just released from the men-
tal institution, Pat (Cooper) seems to
have an alarmingly optimistic view
on his future well-being. He is con-
vinced his estranged wife, who has
taken out a restraining order against
him, will come back to him and he’s
unafraid to try whatever he can to win
her over. His strategy is to think posi-
tive. Because with all the good energy
and vibe, he believes he has a shot at a
“silver lining” (hence the title).
Pat has bipolar disorder for which he
needs medication. When undiagnosed
with this condition, he had the misfor-
tune of walking into his home to ﬁnd
his wife in the shower with another
man. He almost beat the guy to death,
for which he carried out a sentence of
8 months in the aforementioned men-
tal hospital. But armed with the motto
“Excelsior” that gives him inspiration
and a reliable recharge he needs to get
back to his normal life, Pat is back.
His parents however, Pat Senior and
Delores (De Niro and Weaver, respec-
tively), aren’t fully convinced that their
son is fully in control of his situations.
And just as they feared, he shows signs
that all may not be well.
Mental illness is a diﬃcult subject
matter to handle well, especially if it
is the director’s intention to include
some humour into the mix. But David
O. Russell, although not exactly the
go-to guy for comedy, manages to sen-
sitively address the issues surrounding
his protagonist’s everyday obstacles,
and how the condition aﬀects not only
him but the ones around him. He al-
lows his characters to be as outrageous
as humanely possible, without ever
mocking those with mental illnesses.
They are never rounded oﬀ into broad
stereotypes of unstable, screaming
and psychotic caricatures, but often
well-grounded and controlled with
only brief moments of outbursts that
ﬁt in with the scenario.
With the introduction of Tiﬀany
(Lawrence) Pat’s life becomes more
complicated. As a self-proclaimed slut
(she got ﬁred from her job by sleeping
with everyone at her oﬃce) mourning
the sudden death of her husband, she’s
unafraid to speak her mind, much
like Pat, and she seems to be the only
one who understands what Pat is go-
ing through and what kind of help he
truly needs. And in this central role
Lawrence, giving the most mature and
gutsy performance to date, truly grabs
on to your attention and never lets
go. With twisted complications of her
own to deal with, Tiﬀany is a tough
nut to crack, but behind the cold eyes
of hers there is a lonely human being
who longs for a true connection, a
friend, and someone who perhaps un-
derstands her.
It would appear Pat isn’t the only
one in his family with problems. His
father, with subtle hints throughout
the ﬁlm telling us that he has OCD,
has lost his job and has been mak-
ing a living as a book-keeper betting
on football games always loyally sup-
porting the Philadelphia Eagles. So
how does this little subplot ﬁt in with
everything going on? Pat Sr consid-
ers his son to be his own little lucky
charm, although Pat Jr has a hard time
accepting such nonsense. But in a ten-
der, ﬁlm-deﬁning moment we see the
quiet yet beautifully nuanced De Niro
opening up ever so slightly, which to
his character, is a huge step and he lets
us know it.
Caught up in the family chaos, and
arguably the only sane one who acts
as the glue keeping everyone together
is the family matriarch, Delores, nerv-
ously standing by to diﬀuse whatever
situation may ﬂare up. This is Aus-
tralian actress Weaver’s yet another
stunning supporting turn. Here she
has less to do compared to the bigger
names, no speeches or showy mo-
ments, but her warmth is just as easily
felt as the worried mother and wife.
She is so natural in exuding the love
and devotion of a full-time housewife
that she in fact plays a huge part in
creating this loving family drama.
As the ﬁlm increases the stakes
when it comes to both Pat Sr’s bets as
well as Pat Jr’s blossoming relationship
with Tiﬀany through a dance competi-
tion, there is a sense of forced overlap
of sorts to make a bigger, rousing mo-
ment of victory, which marks the ﬁlm’s
only notable misstep. But the high it
ends on is a truly remarkable and sen-
sational one, with the people you’ve
constantly rooted for getting the end-
ing they thoroughly deserve.
Seriously, do you end up with Gale or Peeta?

