FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
39
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
Well, there are some ﬁlms that when
you are a bit too pretentious, you al-
ways act as you have seen them (I am
one of the few people on this planet
to admit that I have yet to watch The
Godfather trilogy. And I am too pre-
tentious for my own good). In the past
decade, Walter Salles’ The Motorcycle
Diaries (Spanish: Diarios de Motoci-
cleta), came to be added in this list.
From pseudo-Marxist friends to
my dad, everyone was looking at me
wide-eyed when I said that I haven’t
seen this ﬁlm (in my dad’s case, he
even knew the director’s name – I
thought his range was only Coppola
and Scorsese. Wrong). It has always
been one of those things in the back
of my mind. I always think of watch-
ing but never actually do. Thankfully,
around London there are some very
pretty charity shops, and one of them
happened to sell the DVD for a rea-
sonably low price.
Behind every big move, there is a
signiﬁcant reason. In this case, the
movie examined the reasons that ig-
nited the desire of Ernesto “Che” Gue-
vara (then without the nickname) to
free the lands South America. But this
is far from a political movie. This is an
ode to friendship, love, being young
and full of life and ideas.
Watching the film was an overall kind
of experience. First of all, it is visually
arresting. The beautiful landscapes of
South America make you stare at the
screen mesmerised. They are not por-
trayed ideally beautiful, with blasts of
colour here and there. On the contra-
ry, they are bared to their true beauty,
sometimes raw, sometimes softer. From
the dry roads to the snow-filled moun-
tain tops, you fall in love with this conti-
nent and realise one of the reasons why
the future Che would go in the revolu-
tion. On the other hand, the cast of the
movie, from the protagonists to the ex-
tras, are all realistic faces, people you
would see in your everyday life, people
you’d expect to live back in the day.
People you can relate to and make your
visual trip easier and enjoyable.
By mentioning the cast, it is unavoid-
able not to refer to the great talent Gael
Garcia Bernal is. I had a crush on him
for ages. It is because of his cute face for
Genuinely interesting diaries
the most part, but this guy is an unde-
niable talent. His body oozes idealism,
kindness and good motives. I have not
studied Guevara thoroughly to know
his moves, gestures and general way of
moving. But what I could certainly tell
from Gael Garcia Bernal’s approach is
that he made his character come across
as a person that would do every single
gesture that the character in the movie
did.
The prominent well intentioned mo-
tives of Guevara were a very good
ground for the contradiction that was
built between him and his co-traveller
Alberto Granado (Rodrigo de la Serna).
Granado comes across as a less well-
intentioned man, as someone that puts
his survival above all. Maybe that was
my main problem with the movie – the
way that Guevara’s selflessness was thor-
oughly promoted by Granado’s more
selfish ways. I believe that sometimes
the whole comparison issue made the
movie lose bits of its charm and was too
obvious for the average viewer, making
Granado quite unlikeable sometimes,
even though at the end of the day he
proves to be a loyal friend and a good
human being.
Set aside this, the movie handles its
themes in an excellent way. The last act
of the film, that take place in the leprosy
sanatorium, reveals Ernesto as a differ-
ent person, if not ready to become the
icon he later embodies, at least be some-
one with a fierce desire to make people’s
lives better, sacrifice himself, because he
honestly loves them. He honestly wants
to provide all support possible – from
medical to emotional.
The future Che sets an excellent exam-
ple of how ideas can be incarnated and
how we can change the world, little by
little. His adamant position and opinion
remained stable, despite all the difficul-
ties he may have confronted. Even when
he can use money for his own benefit
Despoina Paschou Film Writer
Twilight sucks...and not in the good way
Katy Bettany Who??
Breaking Dawn Part 2
Director: Bill Condon
Screenwriters: Melissa Rosenberg,
Stephenie Meyer (novel)
Starring: Robert Pattinson, Kristen
Stewart, Taylor Lautner, Michael
Sheen
The Twilight Saga comes to a much
needed close with its ﬁnal instalment.
The main problem with this ﬁlm is
that Meyer’s ﬁnal book barely con-
tained enough content for one ﬁlm,
let alone two franchise-bleeding ep-
ics. Consequently, this ﬁlm ended up
being two hours in which essentially,
nothing happened.
The ﬁlm begins with Bella opening
her eyes as a vampire for the ﬁrst time,
and soon after meeting her and new
husband Edward’s, creepy daughter
(ridiculously CGI enhanced, and even
more ridiculously named Renesmee).
Renesmee, being only half vampire,
grows at least a year older in every
scene, it seems, until she morphs into
the 11 year old actress Mackenzie Foy
– who took on her on-screen moth-
er’s blank, miserable expressions as if
she had inherited them. Soon she is
mistaken for an immortal child, i.e. a
child turned into a vampire (forbidden
by the Volturi under punishment of
death – pretty self-explanatory – im-
agine a toddler with bloodlust). Alice,
aided by her visions, sees that the Vol-
turi, led by Aro (Sheen), are coming to
punish the Cullens, who then begin
the task of rounding up their friends
from around the world in an attempt
to make the Volturi listen before they
are unfairly slaughtered.
For creatures that supposedly can
move at lightning speed, the Volturi
take a hell of long time to show up –
well over an hour, leaving plenty of
time for Stewart, Pattinson and Laut-
ner to gaze longingly at the camera.
There are too many extended, self-
indulgent shots of the three walking,
or driving a car, or sitting in chairs; as
if these inane functions are somehow
special because they are performed by
beautiful people. More likely, Condon
realised he wouldn’t have enough con-
tent to ﬁll a feature length ﬁlm, and
had to pad it out in the most boring
way imaginable. The ﬁrst hour, there-
fore, was excruciatingly slow paced
and full of sickening happy family/
new house tweenage fantasy.
Stewart and Pattinson are patent-
ly too immaculate and beautifully
turned out to be new parents, proba-
bly something to do with their parent-
ing method, which should deﬁnitely
be converted into a book for expecting
parents. Occasionally pose at a piano
with your child, then leave the diﬃ-
cult parts to your undead family and a
pseudo-paedophile wolf (I’ll get onto
him). This method leaves plenty of
time for gazing at each other/oneself
longingly and getting it on (apparently
when vampires have sex they sparkle
– who knew?). Lautner has been busy
since the last ﬁlm; adding 6 extra mus-
cles to his stomach, which deﬁnitely
isn’t a bad thing, as well as imprinting
(a wolfy form of arranged marriage)
onto Renesmee. The latter is vaguely
unsettling, as while we are assured it is
involuntary and not deviant in nature,
it’s still more than a bit creepy.
So ﬁnally, the Volturi show up. Since
seeing Sheen play Hamlet on stage last
year, I’m always a bit sad to see him in
this franchise, as I think he’s too good
an actor for the role. Nonetheless he
plays psychopathic Aro in a suitably
twisted and humorous fashion. The
ensuing ﬁght scenes between the Cul-
lens, their friends and the Volturi were
actually well constructed, and Ashley
Greene (Alice) is awesomely bad-ass.
More time should have been spent
on the vampires the Cullens’ took the
trouble of collecting, however, as they
had some pretty interesting powers,
but mostly just stood around look-
ing scary. Some shock moments too,
causing a few screams from the au-
dience, as the ﬁlm deviates from the
book in an annoying twist.
All in all, despite a reasonable end-
ing (the ﬁght scenes, not the horriﬁc
video montage of Edward and Bella’s
love story), this ﬁlm felt empty and
self indulgent, its moments of wit
drowned out by everything else. Die-
hard fans will probably revel in Ed-
ward and Bella’s fantasy ending, but
even as part of a franchise, this ﬁlm
is less than convincing. Ultimately,
the ﬁnal book should never have been
split into two.
(or, in this case, actual needs), he prefers
to give it to people in need. His whole
icon and what he generally represents
make you root for the character, mov-
ing further from the historical figure he
grows to become.
Salles’ first effort away from his home-
land and native language (he is Brazil-
ian) does not seem like a too hard one.
He handles perfectly the landscapes
of the rest of his home continent, and
makes them home to you, yet some-
thing magical you would like to discov-
er someday.
Another exceptional point of the film
is its comic undertone, that adds to its
realism and moves away from the self-
seriousness a biopic of a figure as Che
could have carried. On the contrary,
makes the movie even more realistic
and moves you away from the danger of
becoming bored to death or feeling like
you are taught a lesson by the movie –
you are taught zillions of them, but you
actually enjoy it.
The density and beauty of this movie
come gently into your soul and after its
two hours elapse leave you with a feel-
ing of satisfaction, of a spiritual nutri-
tion that makes you want to change the
world; not because you want to cast
your mark upon humanity, but because
you love this goddamn world. In times
like these, this is one desire we should
embrace more, one that should be born
in ourselves and take over.
‘Must act, must act, must act’
Ah crap I left
my USB at
home. It had
my lab report
on it...

