Abandonment Issues
Ross Webster thinkshismindshouldbesupervisedatalltimes
t happened again this week.
I was running around the ru-
ins of a mining operation, in
a cave, now made accessible
by the departure of a ﬂoat-
ing city, which acted like a cork upon
this bottle of badly-aged acid, when I
looked up and I got the urge. This isn’t
the kind of urge that involves running
to the toilet after last night’s curry, this
is the urge to will time to stop, so you
can just stand there and take in what
you’re seeing. When I get this feeling, I
can’t help but get this itch in my mind,
which isn’t satisﬁed until I’ve explored
all the things. I want to climb that scaf-
folding, and see how far the tracks go.
I want to know whose house-of-tyres I
just ran through. Where are they? Are
they still alive? Does anyone remem-
ber that this place still exists? My mind
races, and for a moment, I want to be
my character, with all the opportuni-
ties that this eﬀectively timeless world
oﬀers. Only for a moment, however, as
the bubbling lakes of acid, the swarm
of varkids and the pack of thumping
crystalisks detract from this notion of
abandonment. Damned nature. The
problem is that I can’t rightly put this
feeling into words, so you’ll just have
to bear with me, whilst I try to mangle
words into emotions.
In case you hadn’t guessed, I was
talking about Borderlands 2 and the
Caustic Caverns underneath Sanctu-
ary – an old city constructed as a base
of operations for the aforementioned
mining operations. When you get oﬀ
the elevator at the ‘ground’ level of
the mines, nothing seems out of place
– it’s your regular, grey architecture
that you’ve seen in earlier missions.
It’s when you turn the wheel to open
the ten metre high and one metre
thick doors, that you suddenly feel
dwarfed by the structure. There’s no
comically quotable enemy force down
here to liven up your day – you’re in
a place that even your hardened en-
emies haven’t ventured into. Your sole
sources of entertainment are the bugs
and crystalline monsters that seem to
thrive in this corrosive atmosphere,
and they’re not big talkers.
Borderlands 2 isn’t the only game
that elicits this response from the hy-
peractive cat-trying-to-ﬁnd-a-sunny-
spot part of my brain. Let me take you
back to Portal 2 – a source of enough
quotes to ﬁll /vg/ or /r/gaming for
years to come. There’s this switch in
the tone of the game, about one third
of the way in, and you’ve gone from
“ERMAHGERD RESCEW!” to “ER-
MAHGERD FALLIN TO MAH DEF
:(“. Considering your immunity to fall
damage (a shared characteristic with
Borderlands 2) you don’t go splat,
but you ﬁnd yourself thrown back in
time, to the beginnings of Aperture
Laboratories (the original name of
Aperture Science), with a speaking
potato. Portal 2 isn’t exactly the most
varied, when it comes to life forms
you can interact with – with the ma-
jority of speaking done by recordings
of long-gone industrialists, or the A.I.
(Artiﬁcial Ineptness) that controls the
facility. Or your potato. That being
said, I don’t feel lonely or abandoned
in the ﬁrst part, as there are cameras
and viewing windows all over the
place, but once I’ve dropped into the
ruins and pipes of the long-forgotten
testing facilities and oﬃces, I get that
urge again. What’s behind that door?
What’s living in the water at the bot-
tom of the caves? How does this work,
and where does that collapsed walk-
way lead to?
It’s not just ﬁrst-person games that
let my mind wander either – Beneath
a Steel Sky (BaSS) is a rather old Vir-
gin Interactive game (so old that you
needed to use an emulator to play it
when it was new (a slight exaggera-
tion)), set in a large industrialised
city and the whole game has a dark
1984-esque authoritarian feeling
(think Machinarium mixed in with
Bladerunner) and I want to know what
the history is behind the boarded up
shops, or where all the pipes go!
I think this whole situation stems
from the idea of being unnoticed by
other people. In large cities, sandbox
games and MMOs, you don’t normally
warrant attention, and the world con-
tinues past you – the same as if you
were ﬁghting your way through the
sewers underneath London to reach
an ancient crypt, or watching com-
muters walk by the news stand whilst
you’re 2 miles away, ogling at them
through the scope of your riﬂe. I think
my mind goes crazy when it thinks
no-one is watching me.
In most games, the sit-there-and-
wait mentality normally makes a to-
ken appearance in a scripted event
– there’s rarely ever a bonus to just
watching the world go by in the nor-
mal playthrough of the game. Some
games do reward paciﬁst gameplay
i.e. the Deus Ex series, and once in a
blue moon, the game’s better (IMHO)
when you’re the most cautious thing
since sliced bread (I told you all, ages
ago, that I’m not good at metaphors)
a la DayZ.
The odd thing is that this is a trait
that I hold in both gaming and real
life. True, there are times that I want
to hit (slow moving) people with a fry-
ing pan, or eat a hotdog to heal all my
wounds (let’s not talk about my mush-
room usage), but, generally, my play
style isn’t my lifestyle and I hope it
stays that way, or I’m heading to pris-
on really soon. So, I guess this boils
down into what would make a truly
great – if not iconic – game, in my
opinion. So, a good graphics engine,
with an immense amount of detail and
backstory, and a massive city I can get
lost in, with secret passageways, sew-
ers and an abandoned underground
city. Oh, gameplay? In the wise words
of the immortal Sweet Brown, “Ain’t
nobody got time for that!”
Wanna write for Felix, instead of see-
ing a psychiatrist, like I just did? Let us
know – games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I Wish you weren’t here....
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
40
The health and safety department has
really been slacking off lately
Master
Chief’s
Weekly
News
Flood
lanetside 2 is now out! After months of being in a variety of beta states,
Planetside 2 is available to the public, on an F2P model. If you’re not famil-
iar with how Planetside 2 works, imagine an FPS MMO that plays a lot like
Battlefield (I guess it’s closest to BF2142). PS2 games can take days, as you
run/drive/ﬂy around the map, working with your team to capture the points you need
to win the game. Being free, I’d suggest you all give it a go, and see what you think.
The game’s supported by the option to pay for extra experience boosts and quick un-
locks, also known as the League of Legends, or Freemium model. It’s been years since I
played the original, and it’d be interesting to see if this game can live up to our expecta-
tions. Santa Vanu’s coming to town, baby!
P
We’re landing planetside Wii U
The Wii U came out earlier this week, for
those unlucky enough to be in Northern
America. The only impact it’s had on my life
sofar,isitclogginguptheinternet,somyﬂow
of Lolcats has slowed to a trickle. I’m happy
aboutthelaunchtitlesthough(includingBat-
man Arkham City, and Assassin’s Creed 3),
and although the graphical side of things is
on par with the XBox 360, the new hardware
should prove interesting.

