NEWS
4 FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
Holland Club to close after opposition from staff
continued from the front page
>>
New Research centre opens at Imperial
Last week a new research centre
opened at Imperial College London
in St. Mary’s Hospital: The Impe-
rial Clinical Phenome Centre. This
is the second phenome centre to be
launched this year in the UK, both
centres are based at Imperial College.
The centre is led by both Imperial Col-
lege London and King’s College Lon-
don, although it has many academic
and commercial partners. The centre
is said to aim to revolutionise the fu-
ture of the healthcare sector, trans-
lating medical discoveries to better
healthcare. Researchers will rapidly
analyse the phenotypes of an unprece-
dented number of samples taken from
patients. Blood and urine samples will
be used to search for biomarkers that
link particular populations of people
with susceptibility to certain diseases.
Consequently, this will eventually aid
in the development of more targeted
forms of treatment to combat dis-
eases. Furthermore, this information
can guide doctors on how the patient
is responding to a particular form of
treatment.
Last August it was announced that
the anti-doping facilities acting for the
London 2012 Olympics will become a
pioneering research centre for person-
alised medicine. The centre is funded
by the National Institute for Health
Research (NIHR) and the Medical Re-
search Council (MRC), with ﬁve year
grants of £5 million from both inves-
tors.
The MRC-NIHR Phenome centre
is the ﬁrst of its type in the world,
enabling researchers to investigate the
characteristics of diseases to develop
new treatment for patients. The Chief
Executive of the MRC, Sir John Savill,
described the centre as a “phenom-
enal” Olympic legacy, with research
that is “unprecedented anywhere in
the world”. The centre inherits equip-
ment used by the 2012 Olympics
services. The Phenome centre boasts
novel technologies, where state of the
art technology, with three nuclear
magnetic resonance (NMR) spec-
trometers and six mass spectrometers
Nida Mahmud News Editor
that are intended to give surgeons
useful diagnostic information in real
time.
A phenome is an individual’s chem-
istry due to their genetics and the
lifestyle adopted. The phenotype con-
sists of the external products of genes
and the environment, such as disease
states and hair colours. The combi-
nation of molecules are constantly
changing, they are aﬀected by factors
such as diet, environment and stress.
Furthermore, the phenome is related
to a patient’s response to a disease or
treatment. Molecular analysis will be
undertaken to aid in disease diagnos-
tics and patient speciﬁc treatments.
Jeremy Nicholson, the head of the
Department of Surgery at Imperial
has commented on the “groundbreak-
ing” centre that can “provide new
ways of understanding the complex
interactions between people’s genes
and their environment that determine
their disease risks”. “Metabolic proﬁl-
ing will give us a new dimension of
understanding about the factors that
contribute to disease, as well as cru-
cial information for predicting how
individual patients are likely to re-
spond to treatment. These analytical
technologies are now very mature and
are immensely powerful for telling us
about someone’s physical condition
and disease state. Bringing them fully
into the clinical setting will help doc-
tors make a more informed diagnosis,
choose the best treatment based on
the individual characteristics of the
patient, and monitor their progress
more precisely. It is the dawn of a new
age of ‘precision medicine’.”
Technology that gives surgeons use-
ful diagnostic information in real time
also exists in the centre. For example,
Dr Takats is developing the “intelli-
gent knife”, a tool that can analsye the
smoke produced when surgical blades
that have been heated by electric-
ity cuts a tissue during an operation.
The chemicals in the tissue provide
in-depth information about the tissue;
such as in determining whether or not
a tissue is cancerous.
News Editor: Aemun Reza,
Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
that there are already enough catering
outlets, and that it is already a place for
postgraduates and members of staﬀ to
meet. Many also commented on their
dismay at the College and that they be-
lieved other catering facilities could be
improved instead. It was noted by one
commenter that the staﬀ brieﬁng email
discusses the feasibility study and asks
for comments to be sent to an email ad-
dress but does not suggest comment-
ing on the post on the College’s site.
Sue Sharp, Chair of Imperial Unite
and Treasurer of the Holland Club
Committee, said that staﬀ were “over-
whelming in support of the club as it
was”. She described the bar as “com-
fortable as it is” while admitting that
the function room “does need improve-
ment”. Sharp told Felix that College had
been provided with “ample evidence of
the Holland Club’s support”
.
The reason for the new outlet was “to
serve the needs of the College commu-
nity”. A College spokesman stated that
the “space should be fully redesigned
to maximise its potential and ensure
the best possible service to customers”
,
which was given as the reason that the
Holland Club could not serve food it-
self. Sharp commented: “If the college
is genuine in its intention, why not
build and improve on what is already
there and loved rather than tearing it
down and starting again”
. Sharp went
on to state that “the Holland Club was
willing to improve either alone or in
conjunction with catering [College ca-
tering: i.e. Commercial Services]”
.
The new space will, according to a
College spokesman, be “oﬀering dedi-
cated pub, catering, social, and activity
spaces for postgraduate students and
members of staﬀ”
. In regards to cater-
ing, the spokesman replied that “some
of the catering facility will be used to
provide evening meals for the College
community including undergraduate
students” and that this will be done “to
the extent possible without compro-
mising the facility’s primary purpose”
.
The plans that were originally drawn
up for Level 0 “appeared to duplicate
current facilities already available
throughout the College and left room
only for a small social bar” according to
Sharpe. However the plans then seem
to have been altered.
College set up a Design Brieﬁng Ad-
visory Board, which included repre-
sentatives from the Union, the Holland
Club, Commercial Services, and the
Senior Dean. Their work was ﬁnished
in July. The new design for the space
had “input from the [Holland Club]
board” according to a College spokes-
man. Sharpe corroborated that such a
consultation had taken place and that
they had progressed from the orginal
plans, but the Holland Club Commit-
tee now “believed that many of the rec-
ommendations had been ignored”
. She
said that the “latest news on current
plans would appear to indicate that the
College intends to revert to the original
[plans]”
.
Maryam Habibzay, GSA President,
was asked for comment. However the
GSA were not aware of the plans and
did not know what was going on with
the Holland Club. Habibzay said that
“ideally… I would like to wait until
everyone knows and discuss this with
postgraduate students”, but said that
the Holland Club was “popular for its
cheaper drink prices”. Habibzay ex-
pressed hope that the new outlet will
have similar prices and that it “doesn’t
sound too bad from a PG (postgradu-
ate) point of view. But many will be sad
that it will close as the Holland Club
had become a bit of an Imperial tradi-
tion”.
The future of the Holland Club, and
the space remaining as it was, has been
in doubt for some time, ever since Felix
reported about the feasibility studies
occurring. The Union and the Holland
Club both bid during the tender pro-
cess, but did not win. Paul Beaumont,
Union President, said: “We are obvi-
ously disappointed that we didn’t win
the tender process as it would have
been a good opportunity for a student
led postgraduate bar. We’re working
with Commercial Services to make
sure it is as student friendly as possible.”
Kevin Young, the Bar Manager, will
be made redundant on 31 January
2013. The Holland Club itself will still
exist in name, however it will have no
premises. College have not oﬀered
any replacement. It was claimed that
the trade union Unite asked the Col-
lege to provide an alternative venue for
the Holland Club. However, they were
informed that staﬀ would have access
to the new outlet, and so they will not
oﬀer anything. When asked if the Hol-
land Club had been given any alterna-
tive premises, a College spokesman
replied: “The Holland Club, as with any
staﬀ or student association, is free to
book space around College for its ac-
tivities. However, to ensure everyone
has fair access to those facilities, no
permanent or exclusive access can be
granted to the Club.”
The Holland Club, named after Sir
Thomas Holland, a former Rector of
Imperial, was formed in 1949 as a so-
cial club for non-academic members of
staﬀ. Now, the bar is used by postgrad-
uates and staﬀ (both academic and non
academic) as a social place. The bar has
been relocated before. Once the full
plans for the new space are known, Fe-
lix will report on them.

