thursday 22nd november 16.00—17.30
dhm2012 Launch lecture
by Dr Ossie Stuart
“Following the legacy of the Paralympics, how can we
improve disabled people’s experiences in the workplace?”
The Olympics and Paralympics were great spectacles that
reflected all that is good about humanity. In particular, we
saw in the Paralympics superb athletes achieving their
best. Dr Ossie Stuart, will map out the changes disability
has undergone and will suggest that employment still
remains the last frontier for disabled people today.
In his opinion, the true legacy of the Paralympics will
be a gold medal in the world of work.
Room G34, Sir Alexander Fleming Building
thursday 29th november 13.00—15.00 drop-in
Tea and cakes
with Equality Unit and Disability Advisory Service
supported by the Executive Sponsor for Disability,
John Neilson
Come and join us for tea and cakes and find out more about
what the College does for disabled staff and students.
This is your chance to meet and greet the College staff
involved in disability support and policy development.
Room 311, Level 3 Sherfield Building
tuesday 4th december 13.00—15.00
Overcoming the difficulties in
developing evidence-based
approaches for learning disability
Webinar with Dr Patricia C Oliver Honorary Senior
Research Fellow at Imperial College
Dr Oliver will speak of her research undertaken since the
start of the 21st century into overcoming the difficulties in
conducting evidence-based research in the field of Learning
Disability, citing specific ethical and methodological
solutions developed in research studies.
To join the webinar please email by Friday 30 November
l.okhai@imperial.ac.uk
Disability
HistoryMonth
Events2012
all events take place at:
Imperial College London
South Kensington Campus,
London sw7 2az
For a map see:
www3.imperial.ac.uk/
campusinfo/
southkensington
For more information:
l.okhai@imperial.ac.uk
www.imperial.ac.uk/
equality/events
thursday 6th december 18.00—19.30
This poetry is madness!
Imperial College welcomes top performance poets Zena
Edwards (goodnewzee.wordpress.com) and Mark Gwynne
Jones (www.psychicbread.com) who will be performing
their own unique responses to issues of mental health, in
themselves and in others they have known. An opportunity
to see some of the best of UK’s spoken word artists deal
with a serious issue in a sensitive and entertaining way
that will help open up discussion on one of modern
society’s taboos. This will be followed by question
and answer session with the poets.
Seminar and Learning Centre Room 1,
Level 5 Sherfield Building
monday 10th december 15.30—17.00
Screening of Temple Grandin
Temple Grandin is a biopic film directed by Mick Jackson
and starring Claire Danes as Temple Grandin, an autistic
woman who has become one of the top scientists in the
humane livestock handling industry. Dr Temple Grandin did
not speak until age four and found interacting with people
very challenging. She is noted for her humane design for
the treatment of cattle in processing plants, which have
been the subject of several books and won awards.
Today, she is a professor at Colorado State University and
well-known speaker on autism and animal handling.
Seminar and Learning Centre Room 7 Level 5,
Sherfield Building

