SPORT
53
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Dodgball Dominate University Champs
This weekend saw the Wolverines
tackle the University Championships,
ﬁelding teams in both the Freshers
Championships on Saturday and the
Elite Championships on the Sunday.
On Saturday, it was the turn of the
Wolverines Freshers to hit up the
dodgeball circuit in their inaugural
team appearance. Interesting pre-
tournament tactics included all 6 play-
ers sleeping on the minibus on the way
to Cranﬁeld University. Such an unor-
thodox tactic had never been seen in
the Wolverines before; was this a sign
of things to come?
Despite complaints that they felt aw-
ful upon arrival (maybe the nap wasn’t
so good after all), the ﬂedgling Wol-
verines soon got into the spirit of the
day, winning 3 out of 4 of their group
qualifying matches, captained by the
eccentric Cyprien de Saint Guilhem.
Highlights of the group stages includ-
ed fantastic team throwing from eve-
ryone on board, crucial catches from
Kunal Sharma, and Clinton Chan per-
forming a ‘suicide’ to the delight of the
crowd. Conﬁdence was rife within the
team; could they go all the way?
Their quarter ﬁnal game saw them
face the Lincoln Mighty Swans; with
a name like that you’d expect great
things from such a team. Indeed, the
Swans went 2-0 up, leaving our boys
one game away from crashing out of
the competition. However, some im-
pressive catches from Edwin Newn
and David Leonard and some great
team throwing saw them claw their
way back to 2-2. The ﬁnal game ended
up being one of the most dramatic
dodgeball games ever captured on
video, with outrageous catches left
right and centre (Iacapo Russo pluck-
ing a catch oﬀ his shoelaces comes to
mind). Unfortunately it was not to be
for the Wolverines, who narrowly lost
the ﬁnal game. Still, coming joint 5th
in the ﬁrst tournament for 5 of the 6
players was a great team feat, echoed
by the fact that Man of the Tourna-
ment was a tie between David Leon-
ard and Iacopo Russo.
After hearing news that the fresher
team had played exceptionally well,
the 1sts and 2nds were determined
not to let them down themselves. It
was in true Wolverines fashion, then,
that the minibus left Sunday morn-
ing an hour late. Not one, but two
of the star 2nd team players’ alarms
had failed to go oﬀ, and a third player
had spent much of the past 12 hours
participating in what can only be de-
scribed as questionable activities. The
Wolverines still managed to turn up
on time on the Sunday, only missing
Tom Bell, who would be travelling in
at a later stage; and Zain Abbas, who
although was present on the minibus,
might as well have been missing. Early
attempts to recruit a temporary 6th
man for the 2nds proved diﬃcult, with
requests to nab the Welsh captain in
attendance duly ignored. However,
ﬁnally they managed to secure one of
the freshers from the Manchester Uni
Club. Despite claims that he “had a
cannon arm”, after a couple of games
it was clear that the Wolverines had
been trolled hard by this rogue player.
A sneaky attempt at sabotage, classic
Mancunians.
Nevertheless, the group stages
proved almost trivial for the Wolver-
ines, as both the 1sts and 2nds coasted
through to the quarter ﬁnal round. In
particular, the 2nds came up against
local rivals UCL 1sts in the play-oﬀs
for a place in the quarter ﬁnal. As is
becoming the norm with the Imperial
sports teams, the Wolverines quickly
stuﬀed the inferior uni 3-0 with the
help of Tom Bell who ﬁnally decided
to turn up, becoming the only uni-
versity 2nd team to reach the quarter
ﬁnals.
The 1sts saw a tricky quarter-ﬁnal
against Nottingham Balls of Steel, a
team renowned for their solid, iron-
clad, impervious catching. However,
the pinpoint accuracy and timing of
Thomas Peake and Steve Ndumbe’s
throws proved too strong for the Balls
of Steel, and the 1sts went through to
the semi ﬁnals. The 2nds saw an even
trickier quarter ﬁnal against Bedford-
shire Bulls 1sts. Despite having re-
cruited the ex-1st teamer Adam Cut-
more out of student retirement (read:
graduate unemployment), they could
not stop the charging Bulls.
After the random draw, the 1sts then
saw themselves up against the same
Bulls. The pre-match talk showed
positivity; team scout Nuno Cunha
had overheard the opposition team
talk, and came to the 1sts bringing
news that the Bulls were feeling rather
bearish about Steve Ndumbe’s power-
ful throw, a comment which no doubt
boosted team conﬁdence. The tactic
was clear; give the ball to Steve every
time. Indeed, this tactic very nearly
worked, with the 1sts coming within
spitting distance of a place in the ﬁnal.
Unfortunately the Bulls just managed
to overcome the Wolverines 3-2 in a
best of 7 match.
Still, this left the 1sts with a 3rd place
match against Warwick Warriors 1sts.
Despite a shaky start, solid catches
from Scott Esnouf saw the team clinch
a Bronze medal. All in all, it was a top
weekend of dodgeball for the Wol-
verines, with strong team cohesion
across the board. With the title of best
university 2nd team under their belt,
the 2nds will be keen to establish their
dominance, with some excellent fresh-
ers rising through the ranks proving
worthy competition for team places.
The 1sts exceeded themselves, becom-
ing the 3rd best university team in the
country, and the Freshers should be
extremely proud of a 5th place. Man of
the Tournament for the 2nds was Jus-
tin Ioanna, displaying great leadership
in his inaugural captain appearance
having taken over as a result of Zain’s
tragic state. Man of the Tournament
for the 1sts again highlighted how well
all 3 teams had played together, with
Edmund Teo clinching the title after
every player had earned a nomination
(apart from Will Robinson, soz Will).
Rugby League off to a flying start
Once again Imperial College Rugby
League would be travelling to Wok-
ing College to play their ﬁrst game of
the season. After some inspirational
words on the tube from the clubs
newest fan, Henry, Imperial College
arrived ﬁred up to avenge the two de-
feats that were inﬂicted upon them
last season by Woking.
The game got oﬀ to a quick start with
a try a piece, Imperial’s Stephen Dias
crossing the line ﬁrst with his trade-
mark dive from dummy half however
Woking were quick to reply with a
strong kick chase with the ball ending
up in a Woking players hands over the
line for them to score their ﬁrst try.
Shortly after Dias mimicked his ﬁrst
try but Woking responded, exposing
a weakness in the Imperial defence
out wide to convert two tries in suc-
cession. Imperial regained their form
and after sustained pressure in Wok-
ing’s half, it paid oﬀ with Comerford
pulling out a Thurston-esque grubber
which Marek Broda read beautifully
to pounce upon and score his ﬁrst of
the day. He then followed it up with
a great solo eﬀort, running from his
own 40 to score under the posts. As
the match reached half time, Imperial
were only up by 2 due to failed conver-
sions by Padhraic Comerford.
After the break Imperial were ﬁrst
to score, maintaining the momen-
tum they had gained in the ﬁrst half.
Debutant Oliver Herbage scored ﬁrst
for the visitors and Imperial’s ﬁtness
was showing as Woking’s hooker went
down screaming with cramp (though
some of the sounds he was making
were highly questionable) with James
Bromley who capitalised on the tiring
defence. Imperial were to score three
more unanswered tries with James
Holt crossing twice and Marek Broda
crossing for his hat-trick. Alex Riley
produced some ﬁne solo carries; the
kit bag to and from Woking.
Woking regained their composure,
after some encouraging words from
their head coach and managed to
score on the 5th tackle. However Im-
perial were to have the ﬁnal say when
Hamish Mackenzie (always the op-
portunist) dived on a loose pass in the
Woking dead ball area to complete the
48-24 victory for Imperial.
The result was dedicated to eternally
injured club President David Hobson,
who had been watching from the
sideline and was proud to witness the
club’s ﬁrst win.
Steve Dias Sports Writer
Steve NdumbeDodgeball Club Captain
Y u no look at camera!?
Is the man on the left a giant, or
are the rest of them his children?
Despite appearances, this is a
brand new dodgeball picture...

