SPORT
55
FRIDAY 23 NOVEMBER
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ICURFC loses high scoring affair with Hartpury
A crisp sunny day at fortress Har-
lington surprisingly saw none of the
legendary gusts of wind. With the
ground ﬁrm and the mercury ap-
proaching a lofty double digits, the
scene was set for a challenging con-
test against UWE Hartpury 2nd XV.
With Cap’n Jack side-lined, or per-
haps an unwilling to play against his
former teammates, outside centre
Mike Floyd admirably stepped up to
captaincy.
Imperial started well and whilst
each team earnestly traded blows, a
series of good phases of play saw Im-
perial camped in the opponents 22
looking poised to score. Alas, it was
not be as an errant pass from ﬂy half
George Lane was plucked from the
air by the opposition’s winger to run
the length of the pitch for a converted
try.
Quick to retaliate, Imperial seized
upon the opportunity provided by a
poor kick-oﬀ return. A mauled lin-
eout on the 5m led to a pop from the
scrum half to the two ﬂankers, with
Olisa Ufodiama rolling oﬀ the tackle
to wriggle through and score a try.
Olisa Ufodiama Sports writer The fast paced game saw 2 more
tries a-piece before the half came to
a close, a lack of conversions leaving
the home side trailing 19-17.
The second half began in much
the same manner as the ﬁrst, before
a turnover by Hartpury led to them
being camped in the 22. After a good
period of defence Imperial ﬁnally
succumbed and Hartpury opened
the scoring again. Two tries in reply
including a collected kick chase and
storming run under the posts from
Mike Floyd, and a further try from
an excellent display of footwork from
the Hartpury winger had the score
tied at 31 all with only ten minutes
left to go.
With Hartpury pressing hard, a
patch of poor concentration lead to
another converted try for the opposi-
tion. Rallying around their captain,
Imperial surged forward once more
but they couldn’t convert pressure
into points and Hartpury sneaked for
the last try in this high scoring aﬀair.
The whistle blew shortly after;
bringing an end to this thrilling en-
counter. Imperial gave a great show-
ing of themselves as an ever improv-
ing side, however mistakes proved
too costly this time round. The ﬁnal
score Hartpury 45- Imperial 31.
Man of the Match went to Olisa
Ufodiama returning from injury,
whilst notable mentions should also
go to fresher Tom Hobson for step-
ping up as hooker, some quality runs
by centre Mike Floyd and thundering
tackles from winger Nathan ‘Brucey’
Fitzpatrick and lock Tom Chavas.
ICURFC is proud to be sponsored by
Cyclists Explore the Peak District
It’s 5pm on a Friday as I join 16 oth-
er somewhat intrepid cyclists by the
Queen’s Tower, prepared for a week-
end of cycling on some of the Peak
District’s ﬁnest roads. The plan was
pretty simple; load up the buses, drive
in a vaguely northerly direction, ﬁnd
the Youth Hostel in Edale, spend the
following two days bashing out some
miles in some nice hilly terrain. Return
to London unscathed. Simple.
Well, not really. Within minutes of
leaving Imperial we lost the other bus
only to be confronted by the inevitable
London Friday night traﬃc. Eventu-
ally it eased as we hit the M1 and we
soon stopped for a quick ‘dinner’ (read:
sandwich) from Sainsbury’s. Our jour-
ney continued towards the hills but
after a few more hours of minibus dis-
comfort we arrived at the Youth Hostel
as rain started to fall over the Peaks.
Luckily the following morning saw
blue skies and promise of sun at some
point. After waﬄing down a vaguely
passable cooked breakfast we headed
for the hills. The route for the day fell
just short of 60 miles – not the long-
est by any stretch – but with enough
climbing to just about keep the sadistic
amongst us happy including Mam Tor
and Winnats Pass to name but a few.
The climb up Mam Tor was almost
straight out of the blocks, a nice (de-
pending on your opinion of hills) way
to warm up on a chilly morning. Mid-
way up the climb Tom Gibb had what
some might call ‘a bit of a mechanical’.
Somehow the rear derailleur hanger
on his bike (the bit that holds the rear
gear shifting mechanism onto the
frame) snapped. Bugger. With no more
than 3 miles cycled it was game over
for Tom. Back to the Youth Hostel he
went.
After reaching the top and letting
everyone catch up we set oﬀ again
down a short, fast descent. As we
reached the bottom (and a T-junc-
tion) a view of the road oﬀ to the right
stretched out for at least half a kilome-
tre – what I’m saying is that if some-
one (a group of cyclists, for example)
went right, you’d be able to see them
pretty easily. We carried on along the
route (turning left at the junction) and
battered along the smooth, undulating
roads. A good ﬁfteen minutes later we
turned oﬀ the main road and waited a
few seconds for a couple of stragglers
to join us. It became apparent that
we were missing two from the group.
Oops. A few phone calls later we dis-
covered the whereabouts of Mihai
and Johannes – they’d turned right at
the T-junction. We pushed on hav-
ing arranged to meet up later on the
route. Surprisingly after not too long,
we were reunited at a top of a hill as
agreed.
Oﬀ we set again. We must’ve man-
aged a meagre 5 or so more miles be-
fore Dan got a puncture which was
ﬁxed in not too long at all. Thank-
fully that was the ﬁnal hiccup of the
morning and we actually managed to
get in a fair few decent miles before
stopping oﬀ for some well deserved
lunch at a café. £3.60 for a giant bacon
and sausage bap. Bargain. Hot drinks
were served in pints – the north really
knows how to do things properly.
A picturesque climb out of Grindle-
ford was a challenging way to warm up
again having been sat outside the café
for far too long in just lycra. However,
the long, fast descent was a brilliant
reward for the climb up. After miles of
fast undulating A-roads the main fea-
ture of the day was looming ahead of
us; Winnat’s Pass, a 12%, 1.6km long
climb with a maximum gradient of
20%. One of the hardest climbs in the
UK.
As we approached, the climb didn’t
look as bad as expected. A third of
the way up I realised I had been lulled
into a false sense of security, the climb
opened up around a corner that was
hidden from sight from the bottom
and the gradient suddenly ramped up.
With calves and quads burning and
the feeling that a vein was about to pop
out of my forehead I remembered the
rules of the Velominati (a list of rules,
truths and simple cycling etiquette).
In particular, Rule 5 which states sim-
ply “Harden the fuck up”. With this in
mind I pushed through the pain and
pressed on to the top.
After regrouping and a little rest
we carried on climbing, just a gentle
climb back up to the top of Mam Tor
(the ﬁrst climb of the day) the descent
back down the side we climbed at the
start of the day was sublime. Smooth,
dry tarmac meandering it’s way down
the side of the hill with speeds in ex-
cess of 45 mph were reached. Hugely
rewarding after such a brutal climb. A
few minutes later we were back at the
hostel. Time for the pub.
As per usual with Cycling Club trips,
the pub is always a 40 minute walk
from wherever we stay. It is, however,
always worth the walk and much food
and beer was had by all.
The following morning again saw
blue skies with a distinct chill in the
air. After loading up the minibuses we
headed into Buxton to start the route
for the day. A few miles in we pulled
oﬀ a busy A-road onto some nice quiet
country roads. Minutes later we were
gifted a dead straight, steep descent
down to a reservoir – scarily fast for
roads so damp; above 50 mph this
time. Beyond the reservoir we climbed
for a few kilometers and soon reached
the peak. It seemed like the luck was
on our side for the day – 10km in and
no problems at all. Maybe we’d be set
for a perfect day’s cycling?
Nope. Not quite. The ﬁrst corner
of the descent saw 6 riders take a bad
tumble with some ﬂying comically
onto the verge. A combination of damp
roads, adverse camber and foolhardy
attitudes could be blamed for this in-
cident. Luckily no one was seriously
injured, although Pete endured some
nasty road rash. The most serious in-
jury, however, went to Max’s bike – a
mashed rear wheel saw the end of his
weekend. As we were so far from any-
where we were forced to jump ship; a
few went back to fetch the minibuses
whilst the rest of us waited in the cold,
unable to push on.
All was not bad though – an ex-
tended pub lunch made up for the lack
of cycling that day and eventually we
headed back to London. The weekend
didn’t see as much cycling done as was
planned and perhaps not as quickly ei-
ther, but good times were had by all. A
top weekend.
Obviously a huge thanks to our main
sponsor, Eaton, who’s help in subsiding
trips and kit is making the club bigger
and better than ever!
George Barnett Sports Writer
There’s always one badass
who doesn’t wear a helment

