Wielding the
mighty organ
I
am really, really sick of the NUS debate. I’m
sick of yellow shirts, I’m sick of the external
campaigners and their enforced cheerfulness,
and I’m sick of crusading No campaigners. In
short, fuck the referendum. Before I shut up
about it forever, there’s something I want to
get off my chest about it.
Unsurprisingly for an IC democratic event,
the whole thing has descended into near farce, if not
forty-clowns-in-car farce. The ridiculous recall of Guild-
sheet is merely the final straw in a referendum that’s
been characterised by name-calling, petty complaints,
accusations of bias and downright lying. Somewhere in
between we forgot we were supposed to be having a ref-
erendum to decide the future affiliations of this Union,
and that maybe, just maybe, we should think carefully
about the issues involved, as well as presenting these
issues in an unobsfucated and honest way. The little
spat over the NUS affiliation fee cost (which may or
may not have reached the student body), and the subse-
quent carefulness of the President involving the subject,
was appalling to see. In no way has the President been
dishonest, but it is one thing to be honest and entirely
another to represent the facts accurately and clearly. I
don’t even want to touch the Yes campaign’s “Anti-NUS
myths” flyers, as they discuss things like beer prices, Kit
Kats and other silly fallacies that the No campaign know
will not be an issue.
The above does in no way align me with the No cam-
paign, for they have are equally to blame for the farce
that the referendum became. They have banged on
endlessly about the affiliation fee, and the possibility of
money being drawn away from clubs to pay for it, despite
(reasonably trustworthy) assurances from Beit Towers
that this will not be the case.
There were a few valid points raised in this farcical
disaster. The Yes campaign’s argument that we need a
voice is valid and relevant. The NUS wields huge power,
even though it may be a somewhat damaged organisa-
tion. The No campaign are right to focus on the joke
that is the National Conference, and the sometimes ir-
relevant nature of the NUS’s campaigns. These points
were lost under a shitstorm of pointless point-scoring
and needless personal attacks.
I’m so very disappointed in the whole process. As I’d
never had any involvement with the whole Union process
before becoming editor, I’d always assumed that things
weren’t as bad as the general student population makes
out. It turns out that, for the most part, they were right
all along. By now, of course, the referendum is over, and
we’re stuck with whatever choice was made for a year. I
hope you at least thought before you voted, rather than
letting someone else do the thinking for you.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594 8072.
Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe House,
Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,364, Friday 17 November 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor Alex
Antonov | Deputy Editor Tom Roberts | Science
Editor Krystyna Larkham | Politics Editor Omar
Hashmi | Business Editor Michael Olymbios | Music
Editors Matthew Hoban, Jenny Gibson, Tom Whitson |
Film Editor Angela Lee | Arts Editor Emily Lines |
Food & Drink Editor Hannah Theodorou | Fashion
Editor Dolly Delaney | Nightlife Editor Alex Baldwin |
Comment Editor Stephen Brown | Environment
Editor João Vitor Serra | Clubs & Societies Editor
Kirsty Patterson | Copy Editor Andrew Somerville
felix
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief
T
wo weeks ago saw the anni-
versary of a successful foil-
ing of a terrorist act by re-
ligious fundamentalists, an
event which we celebrate to
this day by burning in effigy one of the
perpetrators. According to the Metro-
politan Police, however, the burning of
effigies is an incitement to violence and
unacceptable in their eyes, even in the
abstract form of a flag.
But to what extent does the catholic
community suffer reprisals from mobs
hungry for blood after being stirred into
a rage after the family-friendly ceremo-
ny depicting the violent and spontane-
ous destruction of the nation’s heads of
state and government, symbolised by
a few brightly-coloured fireworks and
The history of bonfire night
Hugh Mansfield
the less obliquely symbolic burning of
an enemy combatant on pyres across
the country? And, come to that, why
is it that this is still considered accept-
able four centuries after the attempted
act was aborted? It be seen as terribly
blood-thirsty that we indoctrinate our
children into such behaviour.
There is a school of thought which
claims that this is not, in itself, an anti-
catholic celebration (or, if you prefer,
commemoration) and that Fawkes’s ca-
bal of plotters should not be taken to be
representativeofCatholicism.However,
given that their actions were inspired
by a bias against their religion by the
state which can be seen in retrospect
to be considerably more perceived than
real, they cannot help but be seen as
ambassadors for Catholicism, despite
such extremists being a minority. Con-
sequently, their actions stirred up anti-
Catholic sentiment which had, mostly,
been dormant up until that point.
So, given that it can be argued that
burning an effigy of a catholic terrorist
is not an incitement to violence against
Catholics, would it be as acceptable to
burn effigies of perpetrators of more
recent atrocities committed due to per-
ceived religious slights? Certainly, the
Metropolitan Police wouldn’t think so,
althoughtheircurrentstanceonFawkes
is not a matter of public record.
But since the stated aim of celebrat-
ing the failure of the gunpowder plot is
to keep it in the public’s eye as an exam-
ple to all who would do likewise, surely
other such examples would be worth-
while? Though perhaps the fact that
there would be a need for such further
examples shows that the inherent mes-
sage has lost some of its potency some-
where in the past four hundred years.
Should it then, be replaced?
Certainly, there is nothing compa-
rable in the case of the attacks of the
11th of September – a memorial serv-
ice at ground zero is considerably less
of an undertaking than bonfire night
across even so small a country as our
own. Much of the memorial comes in
the form of glib soundbites, such as
the constant use of the term “9/11” to
refer to the events – even “the gunpow-
der plot” is a less lazy shorthand than
trivialising the date to such an extreme.
Even when referred to by date, it is in
the full form of “the fifth of November”
or even in a rhyming mnemonic, rather
than “5/11” or somesuch. Apparently
the similarity between “9/11” and the
telephone number 911 makes this espe-
cially catchy, which makes it little bet-
ter than a pun, which is no way to treat
such a monumental tragedy.
The risk of offending religious mi-
norities seems to be holding western
nations back from properly remember-
ing such atrocities, though it appears
to come more from fear of retribution
than from any moral standpoint.
Dear Andy,
I’m writing regarding the front page
article accusing the ex-President of
disregarding the constitution. I was
disappointed to see this issue being
blown out of proportion, especially as
the incident happened over 6 months
ago.
We all know that sometimes timings
for decisions have to be tight because
of other restrictions (elections timings
in this case), and as for Sameena say-
ing that she’d make decisions herself
without consulting the committee
- well its clear that this was just an
angry outburst once she’d realised that
the trust of the committee had been
broken, and nothing more “scandal-
ous” than that. As Simon Matthews
(last year’s DPCS) said, it was all
“well-intentioned”.
I worked with the Sabb team last
year when I ran the Hockey Club and
so I know the hard work Sameena and
her team of Sabbs, Simon, Tim, etc. put
in last year for the good of the Union.
Rich Bacon
Dear Andy,
I sat on executive last year and just
wanted to present my view of what
happened when, as it has been sug-
gested Sameena “disregarded the
consitution”.
I’m unwilling to go into specifics of
what happened, it was after all closed
session, however my view is that it was
something of a last minute problem.
With last minute problems like these
there is no easy solution. It is never
easy to convine an emergency exec
with little notice, especially since
at least one member was a medical
student, who (I believe) was not then
based in south kensington.
My view is that the correct, indeed
only posible, action was taken.
Some time later I was approached
by a close associate of the current
president and asked something along
the lines of “what’s this I hear about
the DPGS elections?”. (S)he was not
a member of the executive. Since this
was a closed session meeting I refused
to comment, and took my concerns to
Sameena.
A senior and long serving union man-
ager then mentioned, in an attempt to
offer their advice, that the leaking of
closed session items has previously
had some very serious concequences
to the union. I belive this.
As a concequence Sameena told exec
that she would not be bringing futher
similar closed session items to exec.
This is not to say that she would have
acted upon them on her own. The one
thing about Sameena was that she was
very good at seeking advice and turn-
ing to others when problems were oc-
curing, or if she didn’t believe that she
had the ability to complete something.
If you don’t believe this then I sug-
gest you examine who were the return-
ing officers in last years (post council)
elections.
One of the questions I feel obliged
to ask is why this is coming out now,
some six months after the event, with
the DPGS settled into position. It is fair
to say that exec was somewhat divided
last year, with two senior members not
seeing eye to eye.
Finally I would ask that no body
should overlook the high level work
which Sameena did for the union over
at least two years.
Regards,
Mark Flower
11
felix
Friday 17 November 2006
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Dear Felix,
Just wanted to say well done for win-
ning best paper. It’s nice to see some-
one different win it (if not us again!)
Keep up the good work guys.
Will Dean
(ex-Quench editor)
Dear Andy,
Whatever happened to my favourite
section of our beloved Felix – the
centrefold. The centrefold was more
than just an article for so many of us.
It made us laugh when we were down,
it gave us hope before exams and sus-
pense as we rifled through the pages
on a thursday morning.
Was it a concious decision to with-
draw this wonderful piece of journalis-
tic gold or was it simply that there was
a lack of volonteers. If it was the latter,
then we, the civil engineering depart-
ment, would like to volonteer our
services for upcoming issues to revive
the centrefold. The first years have a
right to experience the wonders of the
felix centrefold.
Yours sincerely,
Stanislaw
Andy Sykes writes:
Lots of you wrote in about this, and
initially I’d planned to remove the nu-
dity. However, I’ve reconsidered, and
now I have a superb photographer
ready to snap you all in your unmen-
tionables. It’ll be back at the start of
next term; honest.
Letters and emails
Ex-president acted reasonably Centrefold
Guardian awards

