October brings the beginning of
a new academic year, but more
importantly the annual IC Wake-
boarding beach party. This year
53 IC students, with varying board
riding experience, braved daunting
weather conditions for a taste of
the fastest growing extreme sport
on the planet. For the uninitiated,
wakeboarding is to water skiing
what snowboarding is to skiing.
Snowboard regulars will notice the
similarities whilst recognising the
very distinct differences.
This year’s beach party started in
very auspicious style in Beit Quad.
Thunder could be heard whilst rain
hammered down. Should condi-
tions have stayed as such the entire
afternoon’s riding would have had
to be cancelled. Despite the appall-
ing conditions, which were not con-
ducive to wakeboarding, the coach
was full to bursting with people ea-
ger to get on the water.
The coach was bound for JBwa-
terski, adjacent to Thorpe Park,
where the club rides every Wednes-
day afternoon. At JB’s the newbies
were introduced to the concept of
cable riding. Cable riding is a new
concept in wakeboarding where, in-
stead of being pulled along by a boat,
a cable is suspended in a rectangle
above a lake and used to pull riders
along the water. To many people
this may suggest that is not possible
to get any “air” as there is no wake
to launch from; however cable rid-
ing has developed into a completely
new form of wakeboarding.
The first hurdle for our would-be
wakeboarders was to master the
art of kneeboarding. Kneeboarding
is a simple skill, where a person is
knelt down on a board made of foam
which is then towed behind the ca-
ble. Kneeboarding is an essential
step in understanding how the cable
works and mastering those tricky
corners. When a corner is reached
the rider must aim to be wide out-
side the corner to avoid the rope go-
ing slack, resulting in a short swim.
Despite a few early hiccups at both
the dock and first corner most IC
riders completed several circuits
on kneeboards and were ready to
try to wakeboard itself.
Standing up on a wakeboard for
the first time can be very challeng-
ing, and it normally takes a few
faceplants before new riders work-
out how. The clubs more experi-
enced riders were on hand to offer
instruction and handy hints while
the new riders waited for their
Wake me up before you go boarding
Yes, maybe they stick together, may-
be they sit together in the MDH and
maybe the stereotype of Marlboros
and nice fashionable clothes are not
completely unfair, but I will give the
Greeks this much: they sure know
how to have a hell of a time.
I showed up at the “Annual Greek
party” on Saturday night in the
MDH. It took me a lot of effort to get
there. OK, so I live in Beit, which is
practically across the road, so dis-
tance was not exactly the limiting
factor. Courage though, definitely
was. For some reason, I have always
had a minor Greekophobia and al-
though I am Greek, born and raised
in Athens, I only know a handful of
Greeks at Imperial. It took a bit of
pep-talk to get me to walk out my
front door and when I showed up
half an hour late and there were
only twenty people there it took
even more effort to not turn around
and go home.
The night started off with a lovely
glass of wine and a nice souvlaki.
SincebothGreeksIknewwereplan-
ning to make a Greek entrance, aka
majorly fashionably late, just like
everyone else planning to attend, I
started talking to a random second
year. Maybe not the best start to the
night and it got worse when we ran
out of topics and ended up talking
about World War II. Yeah, I know,
boredom central. At that point I
was absolutely ready to leave. But
then part two followed.
This made the previous suffering
worth it. It was all about the mu-
sic, the dancing and having a great
time. The music ranged from Sean
Paul to all-time Greek favorites.
Being half-Greek and having been
to an international high school I
sometimes feel I cannot quite re-
late to people from home. However,
when the music started playing
that completely changed. Everyone
was so friendly and approachable
that I put my old phobias behind
me and decided to give everyone
a second chance. It was definitely
worth it. I was impressed by the
music, the dancing, the sense of
rhythm and also the culture. For
those that think Greek partying is
about smashing plates, they should
attend some future events to clear
up that misconception.
The crowd was multi-cultural
Timidly venturing out with her fellow Greeks
Samuel Murphy
Newbies and experienced riders get the chance to board together at IC Wakeboarding’s beach party
turn. There were many false starts
as riders failed to get up and away;
however, loud cheers went up when-
ever a new rider managed to stand
up and stay up. The atmosphere at
the dock was amazing as more peo-
ple managed to find their way up.
Once up, many people failed to ne-
gotiate the first corner. Despite this
their first experience of riding had
them hooked and they couldn’t wait
to try again. By the end of the day
most new riders had managed to
stand up and many had progressed
enough to manage a complete cir-
cuit, which is impressive for a first
day. Whilst waiting their turn the
newbies were treated to an awe-
some display of riding by a number
of local pros who laid down some
huge inverted tricks, predominant-
ly from flat water. Huge “air” can be
achieved from a technique known
as “loading the line”. This works as
the cable is suspended high above
the water; by going onto a hard heel
edge the rider can build tension in
the line which when released pulls
the rider into the air.
As the days riding drew to a close
the smell of barbequed food drifted
towards the dock, which tempted
many tired riders to call it a day.
There was a small number of hard-
core riders who simply refused to
stop riding and managed to miss
all the food. On the journey home
a completely non-independent sur-
vey revealed that everyone had en-
joyed their day.
For those of you inspired by this
tale and interested in giving it a
shot then get in contact with us, us-
ing the e-mail addresses below, and
we’ll get you out on the water. We
ride every Wednesday afternoon
all throughout the winter and are
organising some weekend tours to
other lakes across the land. Finally
we would like to thank Alliance
Wakeboard magazine and Relent-
less energy drinks for their sup-
port and everyone who turned up to
make it the great day it was.
For more information email jen-
nifer.isherwood@imperial.ac.uk
Danai Balfoussia
consisting mostly of Greeks but
also with many Cypriots and other
nationalities. Unfortunately the
event coincided with bonfire night
so there was not as great a turnout
for non-members. I definitely look
forward to attending more Greek
events. Mediterranean night and
International night are certainly
sounding very tempting right now.
as initially expected. Furthermore,
Imperial’s unreasonable price in-
crease for the hall rental and wine
provision contributed to the slightly
steep twelve pound entrance fee
Boys and girls at the annual Greek party extravaganza
Ah, the newbies. Eager students patiently wait in line at the annual IC Wakeboarding beach party
28 felix Friday 17 November 2006
lubs& ocieties
S
C

