The world’s largest drugs scandal
Radha Gadhok asks is it acceptable that health companies are driven to make a profit from peoples’ sickness?
Corporate scandal is not hard to
come by in the media and the phar-
maceutical industry certainly takes
its fair share of the limelight. In a
climate where private corpora-
tions need to be seen fulfilling their
social responsibilities and becom-
ing conscientious enterprises the
pharmaceutical industry has made
many moves to improve its public
image. Yet it is questionable how
much drug companies will actu-
ally change as long as they remain
driven by profit. How ethical is it for
companies at the very core of public
health to be driven by their share-
holders, profiting from sickness?
For many years there has been
much talk around the so-called 90-
10 gap, by which only ten percent of
the global health research budget
of $50 – 60 billion is spent on the dis-
eases that affect 90 percent of the
world’s population. Forty-six times
more money is reportedly spent on
development of Viagra than on new
tuberculosis drugs. The Pharma-
ceutical industry however argues
the problem of treating disease
in the developing world lies in the
hands of improved drug distribu-
tion and health infrastructure and
seemingly believes that their role
may be fulfilled by drug donation.
Yet there is only so much that lim-
ited handouts of a small number of
drugs can do. What might seriously
help developing countries to over-
come disease is access to cheaper
generic versions of patented medi-
cines, something that the World
Health Organisation’s rules on In-
tellectual Property Rights (TRIPS)
should support but which is being
fought heavily by pharmaceutical
companies.
In India Novartis continue to seek
to prevent the sale of generic ver-
sions of cancer drug Gilvec, car-
rying out its threats to withdraw
previously offered free treatment
to patients if the market remained
open. Meanwhile Pfizer are suing
the Philippine government over the
import of drug Norvasc (a treat-
ment for high blood pressure) from
surrounding countries including
Thailand and Indonesia where the
drug is considerably more afford-
able. Pfizer insists that neither will
it reduce the cost of the drug of the
Philippines, nor allow the testing of
cheaper imports now nor the pur-
chase of imports when the patent
on Norvasc expires.
The WHO estimate that 74% of
AIDS medicines are still under
monopoly with forces such as the
United States putting further pres-
sure on the developing world to
seek stricter intellectual property
rights.
Clearly despite the buzzwords,
the “public-private partnerships”
and “corporate citizenship”, drug
monopolies and thus a monopoly
on health still remain.
The notion of profits before health
is not restricted to the developing
world. In 2002 GlaxoSmithKline
were at the heart of much debate
as their widely used antidepres-
sant drug Seroxat (paroxetine)
was allegedly misrepresented in
studies, disguising its reduced ef-
fectiveness and higher suicide risk
in adolescent patients. It might be
fair to argue that since drug trial-
ling in children is impossible it is in-
evitable that these scenarios might
occur. However in the court cases
that followed GSK refused to dis-
cuss it’s out of court settlements. It
is easy to understand that no com-
pany would willingly give up such
a profitable drug to bad publicity;
however such moves will hardly go
far in satisfying the transparency
and accountability being demanded
by consumer groups.
When in September 2004 Merck
& Co withdrew Rofecoxib, an anti-
inflammatory drug used in oste-
oarthritis and pain control due to
its significant side effects it was
the most widely prescribed drug to
ever be withdrawn. Discussion and
debate continues to surround this
drug. These are merely examples
that might lead us to question how
much trust healthcare profession-
als can place in the pharmaceutical
industry. One might further ques-
tion trust in clinical practice. Con-
sumers International claims that
some sixty billion dollars are spent
annually by the pharmaceutical in-
dustry on drug promotion, the de-
tails of which are rarely made pub-
lic. Much of this presumably goes
on the gifts and “perks” bestowed
upon doctors by drug companies in
the promotion of new (often more
costly) drug- clearly a question-
able practice. A more far reaching
influence could come in the form of
“Drug-to-Consumer” advertising
permitted in the US but not cur-
rently in the EU. whilst Pharma
continues to push for relaxation of
these restrictions in the EU Health
Action International (a non-profit
organisation representing consum-
er interests) continues to state that
the pharmaceutical industry is not
nearly as unbiased, reliable and as
comparative as it needs to be.
One consumer’s group reports
that between 2002 and 2005 there
were 972 breaches of the Asso-
ciation of British Pharmaceuti-
cal Industry ethical drug practice
guidelines.35% of these were on
the grounds of misleading drug
information.
The discussion is clearly com-
plicated and made of many parts.
It is not simply a question of “cor-
poration bashing”. There are real
and difficult problems with having
a profit driven Pharmaceutical In-
dustry. This article is merely a brief
introduction; however on Tuesday
21st November six experts in this
field including Dr Michael Borowitz
of the UK Department for Interna-
tional Development and Professor
Trevor Jones CBE, Former Direc-
tor-General of the Association of
British Pharmaceutical Industry
will be debating such issues. It
should be fantastic debate and all
are welcome.
For further details please see
www.union.ic.ac.uk/medic/medsin
Are international pharmaceutical companies so high on their desires for profit that the world is suffering as a consequence?
9
felix
Friday 17 November 2006
GLOBALLY SPEAKING environment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

