30
November
1998
KEEP THE CAT FREE EST 1949
The S t u d e n t s ' N e w s p a p e r at I m p e r i a l C o l l e g e
Wade in Resignation Nightmare
IC School of Medicine Union has suffered
its third key resignation in a little over a
month, with the departure of Education
Rep Oliver Warren. This has brought to
the surface deep divisions within the
Union Executive, and has raised ques-
tions from several quarters over the com-
petency of the Med School President, Mr
Wade Gayed.
Mr Warren's reasons for resignation,
given both in a letter to Felix and in per-
son, would seem to be twofold, firstly, he
had been "extremely angered by thc
loss of £3000 from the medical school
reserve funds" which resulted from thc
cancelled Graduation Ball. Again, thc fin-
ger of blame is pointed, with Mr Warren
adding, "members of the SU from Mary's
were not even aware this was going to
occur until less than a week before Grad-
uation Day". This loss was, in Mr Warren's
words, "So precious in a year when there
is talk of charging clubs more money for
minibuses..." Indeed it comes on top of
By David Roberts
f
••/m
ii<ii*\ '
Photo: Andy Wade stands alone as Exec members fall
a series of other exceptional payments
and purchases which have seen the
ICSMSU reserves dwindle from in excess
of £55000 to practically nothing.
Secondly, he expresses a clear lack
of confidence in the Medical School Pres-
ident, who "manages to avoid the flak by
covering himself and passing thc buck",
former ICU President Andy Hceps, who
himself resigned as Med School Secretary
last month, confirmed this point of view,-
"There is a very unhappy atmosphere
amongst School of Medicine students at
the moment because there is no clear
leadership...I am not surprised that there
are more resignations coming through."
Although Mr Gayed refused to com-
ment ditcctly on Mr Warren's resignation,
beyond remarking that it was "very unfor-
tunate", he accepted that "we're con-
stantly discovering problems ...they can't
all be sotted out this year - we're like a
crash team, sent in to locate all the prob-
lems and meet them head on". However,
he did add that "things are getting bet-
ter".
Several sources have suggested that
a senior member of staff advised Mr
Warren to resign his position. Further
investigation, however, suggests that
staff have had a strong role to play in the
other resignations, and indeed the entire
running of ICSMSU. One senior source
put this very bluntly; "Gayed is being
Continued on page 2
Designer Drugs A Menace
By Andrew Brown
The streets, pubs and clubs of Britain
have been hit with new, lethal, designer
drugs. Already responsible for three
deaths in thc UK, as well as two in Hol-
land, not all of these drugs are classified
as illcgal.Thousands are being sold as
ecstasy, the users unaware that the new
drugs can be up to 33 times stronger.
4-MTA (4-methylthioamphetamine),
more commonly known as 'I latliners'
due to the 'out of body' experience that
they allegedly cause, has been named as
being responsible for at least two deaths.
Private Stephen Evans of the Devonshire
and Dorset Regiment died after taking a
cocktail of drugs during a night out in
Torquay. He returned to his girlfriend's
flat in Plymouth where he turned purple
and lapsed into a coma - the paramedics
arrived too iate. Thc coroner found opi-
ates, cocaine, methadone, cannabis, two
types of ecstasy and 4-MTA (Flatliners) in
Private Evans' body. He recorded a ver-
dict of death by non-dependant abusive
drugs and remarked "Anyone who takes
drugs like this is playing Russian Roulette
with their lives." Hatliners were also
responsible for the death of a 22-year-old
psychology student in Shepton Mallet,
Somerset, in July. She had not taken any
other drugs.
Photo: Joel The pills appear Innocent
4-MTA was developed at Purdue Uni-
versity, Indiana by Professor David
Nicholls as a replacement for thc anti-
depressant Prozac or as an appetite sup-
pressant. It was never tested on humans,
but underground chemists found refer-
ences to it in scientific papers and repro-
duced it. However, Professor Nicholls
commented that it was only intended to
be prescribed in 2-3mg doses, not the
doses in excess of lOOmg the cream-
coloured tablets contain.
Possession of flatliners is not illegal
as they are only covered by the Medi-
cines Act, which is rarely enforced. The
Home Office is considering classifying
these and 35 other ecstasy derivatives as
class A drugs under the Misuse of Drugs
legislation with penalties of 7 years and
an unlimited fine for possession, 14 years
plus a fine for unlawful production and
life imprisonment for supplying.
Thc other drug, 4-bromo-2,5
dimcthoxyamphetamine (DOB), sold as
Golden Eagle, has its roots in thc sixties
and has sometimes been sold as LSD.
There have been ten seizures by British
police recently. DOB can cause feelings
of anxiety, paranoid fantasies, flushing,
palpitations, vomiting, psychiatric prob-
lems, panic, violent behaviour and death.
Astonishingly, recipes for the fatal
concoction are readily available on the
Internet. Caution is advised: if you insist
on taking these softs of drugs, make
sure that you at least know what you are
taking.
Inside..
Letters 6
Editorial 7
Columns 8
Feature 10
IC Radio 12
Clubscene 14
Music 16
Arts 19
Film 22
Computer Games 24
Sport 26
Diversions 27
Crossword 28

