30 November 1998 Music 18
Albums
VARIOUS ARTISITS
54 - Original Soundtrack
O
lder readers may remember a
late 70's New York disco called
Studio 54, or maybe not.
Anyway, 54 is a film based on the true
life events of the club's founder Steve
Rubell, played by Wayne's World star
Mike Myers. If you're wanting to see
the film then don't expect to do it on
the big screen, as it had its release way
back in August (don't ask me why the
soundtrack won't be released until well
into January next year!). The film also
stars Neve Campbell (Scream) and
some guy called Ryan Phillippe; a
young, sexy, nothing-but-bow-tie-wear-
ing hunk who will apparently be getting
Leonardo DiCaprio status very soon
(yeh yen!).
Before this turns into a film
review I shouid probably talk about the
music. This soundtrack is, surprisingly, a
double CD compilation of, unsurpris-
ingly, some late 70's classics. I'm inter-
ested to know how they managed to
play all 32 of these tracks during the
film. CD1 opens with If You Could Read
My Mind- a lovely, mellow track featur-
ing the beautiful vocals of Ultra Nate. The
rest of CD1 isn't any better than this, just
cheesy 70's crap. Having said that, there
are some nice moments due to the S.O.S
Band doing the funky Take Your Time
(Do It Right)and the uplifting guitar intro
followed by charming vocals and a
decent track taking the name of Please
Don't Let Me Be Understood by Santa
Esmeralda (already in the Christmas spirit
I guess!). You just can't help bopping
your head to the classic Spank from
Jimmy 'Bo' Home and Blondie's Heart Of
Glass. Before you take CD1 out be sure
to play the first track again, it'll remind
you how the rest of the tracks fail mis-
erably in comparison.
Maybe it's because I don't
really get off on 70's music, but there's
nothing in this album that turns me on!
The only good tracks are the ones peo-
ple know due to them being redone in
90's style. I talk about tracks like Diana
Ross (The Boss) covered by The Braxtons,
Dan Hartman (Relight My fire) redone by
Take That and Sylvester's You Make Me
feel was updated into a brilliant 90's ver-
sion by Byron Stingily.
In conclusion, the soundtrack
is not much better than the film (going
by its reviews), but if you just want some
of these 70's tracks on CD then you may
consider buying this, otherwise just go
to the movies three times with the cash
you save. CI
Asad
GRAND MAL
Maledictions
F
rom outside it looked like a demo
tape (even though it wasn't) but
comparing the contents to a
demo tape would be an insult to all
budding musicians. Demo tapes have
blood, sweat and tears stamped all over
them. It's probably the culmination of
years of practice and slogging through
the same songs again and again. The
demo may well be shite but at least you
can taste the effot. Grand Mai come
across as being overly influenced by
too many people, resulting in an album
which is patchy and lightweight.
The first song. Superstars is obvious
fodder for the Best Rock Album tiller in
the World. If they were aiming to tap into
the retro-rock style then unfortunately
the retro (occasionally) glam/punk rock
style that they have produced is unfash-
ionably wide of the mark. Whole Lotta
Nothing has semi-anthemic potential
but lacks the balls to make it into any-
thing more heavyweight. Out on a Bail
is a retrospective disaster - Status Quo
chords and honky-tonk piano which are
easily twenty years out of date.
You Gotta Be Kidding has vocals
remarkably similar to that of White Town,
while Suckers Be? sounds horribly coun-
try and western and plods along like a
lame horse, the singer obviously had a
bad cold at the time but didn't help him-
self by sticking his head in a bucket
while he sang it.
The only glimmer of hope within
the whole thing was Picture You (As
Always Falling) which is a semi-
slushy/indie ballad and sounds surpris-
ingly good compared to the dross that
surrounds it. However, it may well be a
false gem, as it's hard to judge quality
status when it's surrounded by drivel
None of the material here is capable
of making a dent in the singles chart - not
even the novelty of a 'one-hit wonder' is
on the cards. In short, Grand Mai are
most certainly not grand. H
Katherine
singles
King - Come As You Are
This is bad - an Elvis impersonator with a deep voice cov-
ering Nirvana. Simply put, this song really should not
be sung this deep - it ruins it. Also, it would have been
nice if the 'King' had actually got the right lyrics. Unsur-
prisingly New York New York fares much better. The
cover of The Sweet's Blockbuster is the best thing
here, especially when the band decide to go rock n' roll.
Without the Nirvana cover, this may have been worth
it.
One Lady Owner - Wheelklngs 1973
The title track is a piece of brooding electro-rock -
there's an underlying hint of malice with vocals low in
the mix and with a bit of a Sisters Of Mercy feel. The
band appear to have a serious car fixation: the songs,
their titles and the band name. It's good to see an effort
at continuity from someone. The best bit about this is
the bass which underpins things very well indeed.
Catchers - Come Around
Competentiy done folky-rock, which is soothing and
mellow for most of the time. The band also cope well
with pace changes. It still sounds like the same song,
not like they have decided to play something else for
a while instead. It's all very nice, but therein lies the
problem - there's nothing else to it. It doesn't elict much
of a response. H
Jamie
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Radiator - Generator.
Ooh, it rhymes. Is that good or bad? In this case what's
good is that these guys have reworked the Britrock style
with some jungle type beats and astoundingly they've
pulled it off. Radiator lean towards the heavy rock
sound but with some mightily frantic drums too. Ihere's
no information on the sleeve so, if this is their debut
single, it's impressive. Spankingly different. El
Christine
Lyden David Hall - Sexy Cinderella
The high vocals that dominate this song really suck,
which means that the song does too. The second track
is a remix that gets rid of most of the vocals and
replaces them with raps instead. Better, but still not that
good. The last track is an acoustic version of Medicine
4 My Pain. It's actually not that bad. I'm sure lots of peo-
ple will love this - it's just that I'm not one of them.
Baaba Maal - Souka Nayo (I will follow you)
This is stirring and uplifting. Mainly this is a vocal track,
with some nice beats and what may be a guitar. There's
also some nice breaks where brass and wind instru-
ments come out and play. The other tracks are remixes,
which leads to the question of who decided that it
would be a good idea? The nature of this is such that
the remixes don't work, which isn't that surprising
realiy. El
Jamie
Robbie Williams - No Regrets
Ah, darling Robbie, you've come so far. A pleasant tune
and no mistake. Not much to say about it really; take
one ex-Take That member, add a touch of shuffley
beats, lovey lyrics and throw in some radio-friendliness
for good measure. Guaranteed not to offend.
Malluka - Dancing In A Minefield EP
Somehow, I don't think we'll be seeing this in the top
10. It's yer generic pop-rock done to the same old
threadbare formula. There are four tracks and none
stands out as a single but there is some nifty drumming
on Blue Light. It's all pretty dull really, except it has got
the word gimp on the sleeve. El
Christine

