30 November 1998 Arts Feature 19
THE LONDON FILM FESTIVAL '98
Escape from Hollywood blockbusters and embrace the world of alternative cinema. Dynamic duo
Ben & Dave present a brief cross-section of this years contributions.
I
magine fifteen days of diverse, inter-
national cinema, assorted from the
works of some of the most exciting,
innovative directors and filmmakers
around. A selection including block-
busters shown before their nationwide
release, as well as films lower in profile,
but very often higher in quality. A chance
to rub shoulders and pick the brains of
famous directors, producers or actors
and to really absorb the culture of film-
making. This is the London Film Festival.
Sound good? Well, the bad news is that
you've just missed it!
Corps Plonges
I his was the second feature by the
apparently acclaimed director Raoul Peck,
but almost from the start it was a disap-
pointment. The story centered around a
female pathologist's involvement with
two men and her struggle against a sus-
piciously Gallic New York City. The film
lacked any of the style one has come to
expect of french cinema and had clumsy
direction and melodramatic acting. It's a
surprise that Corps Plonges made it to
the London Film Festival and shows that
not every film they screen is first rate.
Din Raoul Peck / Haiti-French 1997
The Interview (pictured left)
This thoroughly professional debut
feature by Austtalian writer/director Craig
Monahan was totally funded by Aus-
tralian television. The storyline, both pur-
poseful and unpredictable, was
developed by Monahan over a seven-
year period. It's set in a police interview
room and revolves around the guilt of
the main character, played by excitable
Hugo Weaving.
The strong plot was further boosted
by the use of high-contrast lighting tech-
niques, some excellent cinematography
(orchestrated by the obviously talented
Simon Duggan) and sound production
which added depth and realism. These
factors combined to give the film inten-
sity, at the same time echoing the feel-
ings of desperation, fear and hate.
However, the characters were (per-
haps intentionally) rather two-dimen-
sional. The plot is also somewhat
contrived and ambiguous. In retrospect,
this films borrows much from Brian
Singer's superior Usual Suspects but is
sufficiently different to make it worth-
while viewing for the discerning cinema
goer.
Dir: Craig Monahan / Australia 1998
Brown's Requiem
This film follows closely on the foot-
steps of LA Confidential, as the second
film in so many years to be adapted
from a James Ellroy novel. However any
comparisons between these films is
unfair, as Brown's Requiem is a low bud-
get movie - a debut feature from the
young US writer/director Jason Freeland,
and is 'indie' in the truest sense.
I his film was wholly
financed through private
funds with no affiliation to
any studio. These budget
restrictions meant the story
had to be doctored some-
what. The picture was set
17 years later than the
novel and a rare period of
rainy weather in LA (due to
El Nino) had to be written
into the script. Otherwise,
the storyline attempted to
remain as faithful as possi-
ble to the original book,
and revolved around the investigations
of Fritz Brown, a PI played by Michael
Rooker. His unconvincing performance
did nothing to aid his remarkable resem-
blance to Joe Cocker in letting the audi-
ence take him seriously.
The film is well shot, intelligently
directed, and benefited from a strong
supporting cast. However the plodding,
cliche-ridden storyline had little tension
or surprise in it. The next death or dis-
covery is ali too easy to predict, especially
if you are well versed in this genre.
Dir: Jason Freeland / USA 1998
British Programme Shorts
This was an eclectic and on the
whole entertaining slice of contemporary
British cinema. Possibly the standout
short was The Anniversary, which was a
moving and sensitive portrayal of grief
and old age. It was written by and starred
the veteran British actor Jim Broadbent,
who played an emotionally repressed,
middle-aged businessman struggling to
come to terms with the loss of his wife
and mother in a car accident, and his
father to the deterioration of old age.
Dir: various
The Buttoners (KoflikaYi) (pictured right)
This was the British debut of Petr
Zelenka's Czech film and part of the
LFF's 'Experimenta' section. The funding
for the film was provided by Czech TV to
its credit, demonstrating that the Czech
Republic is willing to leave mainstream
cinema and test the murky waters of
experimental film (although it failed to
venture far into the deep blue). The film
is broken up into a series of separate,
seemingly distinct stories, in random
order and then in true Tarantino-esque
style the progression of the film allows
the links between sub-plots to be
revealed. The tone of the film is light-
hearted throughout with sharp dialogue,
bizarre situations and ways of life - the
strangest undoubtedly belonging to the
eponymous Buttoners, or in Czech, the
KoflikaYi. In spite of the acting quality
and plot originality, the film overstayed
its welcome This observa-
tion contrasts with perhaps
the greatest flaw of the film
- the seemingly hurried
ending, which grated
painfully with the rest of
the storylines, being unre-
alistic and devoid of cre-
ativity. That aside though,
this was not a bad film. If
you are inclined to see it, it
is touring London for the
next month and a half and
will also be represented
during the Czech Season at
Riverside.
Dir: Petr Zelenka / Czech Republic 1997
Ashes from Paradise (Cenizas del Paraiso)
A powerful tale of corruption and
murder from Argentinean cinema, Ashes
from Paradise is an absorbing film.
Strong, well-developed characters and
good acting maintain your interest dur-
ing the two hours. The director also pro-
vides the audience with some stunningly
emotive scenes and compelling use of
light, as well as high quality cinematog-
raphy. The plot centres around the mur-
der of a girl - whose corpse is shown in
gruesome and graphic detail at the
beginning of the film - and a judge's
search for her killer. Three brothers all
confess to the murder, all apparently
without motives and it's from this entan-
gled beginning that the plot slowly
begins to unwind in extended flashbacks.
Additionally, the big players sub-
plot of corrupt judges and busi-
nessmen hampering the
investigation further adds to the
confusion. In fact, such is the com-
plexity and speed of the storyline
that at first it's difficult to keep
track of the action, but persever-
ance certainly pays off. The
denouement was slightly disap-
pointing for those expecting great
revelations after such an excellent
and painstaking build-up, but to some
tastes no doubt satisfying, and by no
means poor.
Dir: Marcelo Piheyro / Argentina 1997
Two Girls and a Guy
One of the weaker contributions,
this film lacked convincing acting with
wooden deliveries and unrealistic reac-
tions, there is the occasional moment of
comedy provided by Blake (Robert
Downcyjr), the 'guy' in the title, and his
aimless ramblings, but the overriding
response is simply a cringing embar-
rassment.
Dir: James Toback/ USA 1997
Your Friends and Neighbours
The second coming of US indie
director Neil Labute of In the Company
of Men fame. If you missed his excellent
debut, and most did, then you may be
slightly shocked by this picture. But in the
light of In the Company of Men, contro-
versial it is not, so the hardcore fans may
be disappointed. There are still relation-
ships without the glamour, male bigots
and backstabbing, but Labute's formula
has been diluted. In this film, the direc-
tor focuses in on sexual relationships
and highlights the massive differences
between the genders when it comes to
sexual mores. However, it lacks the tight,
well-rounded and ultimately shocking
plot of his debut. There are some classic
scenes nonetheless with genuine
humour. Since In the Company of Men
had its most successful running in the
world in London, it is fairly likely that
Your friends and NeighboursvAW be well
represented in the capital's cinemas.
Dir: Neil Labutc/ USA 1998
The 42nd LFF ran between 5-19th
November with literally hundreds of films
being shown at five main venues - pri-
marily at Odeon West End (Leicester
Square) and at the National Film Theatre
(South Bank Centre), which also screens
classic and art-house cinema throughout
the year. Further information, including
details of the next LFF in November 1999
should be available from the official web-
site: www.fllmunllmited.co.uk. Appar-
ently, this site "is the indispensable guide

