2 News 30 November 1998
Merger Miffs Microsoft
America Online, the wotlds biggest inter-
net service provider, has announced a
take-over of Netscape. The deal had
been delayed by questions over Sun's
participation in the venture.
AOL stands to gain proven technol-
ogy and the ownership of one of the
Internet's most accessed sites: Netcenter
(the default webpage opened by the
Netscape browser when loaded for the
first time). "When you add it all up, there's
incredible power in what we're announc-
ing today," said Steve Case, AOL's chair-
man and CtO "With Netscape, we will
broaden our global audience at home
and at work and add world-class tech-
nology to support an expanded range of
products and services."
In a separate announcement, Amer-
ica Online also stated that it had entered
By Joel Lewis
into a strategic alliance with Sun Microsys-
tems to "enhance its delivery of e-com-
merce solutions". The companies will
develop complete solutions for c-com-
merce based on the best available tech-
nologies and expand their sales channels
to include each other's products and ser-
vices.
The three-year America Online-Sun
agreement also will increase distribution
and development of Netscape's enter-
prise software for corporate customers.
The companies will use Sun's Java tech-
nology to offer AOL services on selected
Internet devices, consistent with AOL's
new "AOL Anywhere" strategy to make
AOL compatible with any Java compati-
ble machine.
In thc deal with Sun, AOL agreed to
purchase systems and services worth
$500 million from Sun throughout 2002.
Sun, meanwhile, will pay AOL $350 mil-
lion in licensing, marketing, and adver-
tising fees during thc period. "When you
put those pieces all together, I think it's
a pretty compelling opportunity for com-
panies to get thc infrastructure and the
traffic all together in one place and get
to matket online big-time," said Sun CEO
Scott McNealy.
Generally, there has been a positive
reaction to thc plans in thc industry-with
many seeing the new AOL as a possible
challenger to Microsoft's continued
advances into e-commerce and the Inter-
net as a whole. Insiders also say that at
most there will be minor anti-trust prob-
lems with the partnership.
issue 1128
30 November 1998
Editor: Ed Sexton
News Edltots: Andrew Ofori and
Jonas Lindsay
Photographic Editor: William Lorenz
Music Editors: Jason Ramanathan
and Dennis Patrlckson
film Editor: David Roberts
Sports Lditot: Gus Paul
Arts Editor: Helena Cocheme
Games Editor: Gary Smith
Clubsccne: Giles Morrison
Photo Editing: Joel Lewis
V&A Revamp
By Brett Donovan
Replacement Vice President and
Secretary Elected
Due to open in 2004, the proposed Spi-
ral extension should bring the V&A
museum into thc 21st century. Designed
by the architect Daniel Libeskind, the
new addition is to house contemporary
works of art, craft and fashion, in partic-
ular featuring the work of young design-
ers.
plan personalised tours around the gal-
leries.
As yet, the museum has not secured
the necessary financal resources and
consequently senior management are
actively seeking funding for the esti-
mated £75 million required The V&A
hopes to obtain funding from the Lottery
Photo: Coutesy of the V&A
The proposed gallery is certainly a
modern design and although not in
keeping with existing styles, has been
greeted with enthusiasm from the art
world. The Spiral is a functional gallery
with an auditorium and studio based
learning lab; apparently interactive ori-
entation guides will enable visitors to
Artist's Impression of the Spiral Extension
and a whole host of charitable organi-
sations, however with current contro-
versy over Lottery arts funding, the future
of the extension is insecure. Planning
permission has been granted and
despite widespread criticism and oppo-
sition ftom residents work is planned to
begin in mid-1999.
Continued from page 1
used as a lap-dog by thc Vice-Principal
(Undergraduate Medicine). It is clear
that the ICSMSU now exists purely to fur-
ther the political interests of members of
ICSM staff, and not to benefit our stu-
dents". This is backed up by Mr Warren's
view of Mr Ahmad's resignation, "certain
members of the union executive...took
it upon themselves to force Seif from his
position, by continually undermining his
position, sometimes to people as high
up as Professor Whitehouse [thc Vicc-
Principall".
It is known that complaints had been
made to Sarah Burnett [the ICSM Admis-
sions lutorl over the ICSMSU President's
failure to appear at the ULU Med Group
visit to Cambridge to meet prospective
clinical students, and consequently,
according to Felix's source "it's not sur-
prising that thc School's Senior Admis-
sions lutor told the Education Rep to
jump before other sections of the School
Administration started to push". This view
has been confirmed by several other
senior sources, who corroborate the
Admissions Tutor's advice to "jump
before the ship sinks".
Meanwhile, elections to replace Mr
Ahmad and Mr Heeps took place on 19
and 20 November. Since the elections,
serious allegations of electoral malprac-
tice have emerged, with ballot boxes
failing to materialise at the Charing Cross
and St Mary's campuses. Furthermore,
according to thc few medical students
prepared to talk to I elix, thc only ballot
box was in fact situated under Mr
Gayed's desk in the BMS Building, and
produced only on request. Indeed, it
would appear that hardly any medical
students at any of the campuses - or
indeed either of ICU's sabbatical offi-
cers - were aware that the election was
taking place. Mr Gayed refused to be
drawn on the precise number of votes
cast, only stating that "a fair number"
exercised their democratic right, electing
Lizzie Robinson as Secretary and Nick
Newton as Vice President (Internal).
So what does thc future hold for
ICSMSU? Mr Warren feels that it is vital
that Medical students begin to examine
the problems that face their Union: "I ask
you why things have been allowed to get
this bad". Yet according to another senior
union figure, "it is too late for ICSMSU...it
is clear that as ICSM voted against the cur-
rent ICU President that he has no desire
to intervene and clean things up,- it must
be obvious to him that there are prob-
lems of both a representative and finan-
cial nature". However, responding to this
charge the ICU President, David Hellard,
stated that "I find myself in a position
where whatever I do someone will see
it as being anti-medic.We're monitor-
ing the situation, and are in close contact
with all the people involved, both inside
and outside their Exec". Mr Warren too
noted a cleat belief that there is a light
at the end of the tunnel; "the Union is not
as strong as the executive who run it, but
the other way around; the executive is as
strong as thc student body it represents
and serves".
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL www.su.ic.ac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Ptinted at MCP Litho Limited. Units B2 & B3, I lalton Square, 16 -16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ felix is a registeted newspapet: ISSN 1040 - 0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © felix 1998. Photographic copyrights remain with photogtaphers.

