22 Film 30 November 1998
Reviews
The Negotiator • • •
Starring : Kevin Spacey, Samuel L Jackson
Director: F Gary Grey
I
've seen my fair share of hostage
negotiation films - Die Hard has to
be one of my favourite films of all
time. However, I like it for the clever bits
in the plot and the action. It's just a bit
of fun: it never feels, well... real.
That's where The Negotiator comes
in. It tries its hardest to stick to the rules.
No psychotic off duty cops taking on an
army of bad guys single handedly. At
worst, it's one man trying to talk down
the villain before everything breaks down
and the hard boys are sent in. The bad
guy doesn't stand a chance.
Danny (Samuel L Jackson) stands a
better chance than most. He's a nego-
tiator himseif, so he knows all the rules
of engagement. He was framed fot the
murder of his partner soon after his part-
ner found some evidence of corruption
in the police force. So, he marched into
the inspector's office and is holding him
hostage until he gets his answers and
can clean his name and seek revenge.
(Murdered partner... framed... revenge...
nnngh! Far too cheesy...)
There are some great comic bits as
the other negotiators struggle to deal
with someone who's an expert in this
"Sablan. Get me Sabian". Now that's what I call script.
kind of situation. Sabian's (Kevin Spacey)
first scene is quite funny too, as he tries
to talk his wife out of the bathroom and
his daughter off the phone. Kevin Spacey
is quite good throughout. He always
looks scarily efficient, which is just what
the character should be.
Characterisation is what the film's
about after all. It compares Jackson's "Do
something and change the situation"
approach to Spacey's "Let's sweat it out
for a while". And then again with Com-
mander Beck (David 'Bad guy in Twelve
Monkeys' Morse), who just sends in the
troops at thc first hint of trouble. The
problem is, thc characterisation never
goes much deeper than this. As a result,
you never really care what happens to
the main players. You should probably
feel for Jackson, since you know he's
done nothing wrong yet is still being
treated as a villain - but you never really
do. At some points I wished they'd just
shoot him and get it over with.
The main problem with The Nego-
tiator, though, is that it doesn't really
excel at anything. You never really feel
shocked or in suspense. The action bits
are quick and brief, which is probably
realistic, but not much fun. The plot does-
n't have any huge twists in it: a few
clever jinks and sidesteps to throw you
off the scent maybe, but nothing drastic.
It's a film which will maintain your inter-
est for the duration, but don't expect to
be astounded by it. D
Andy
The Slums of Beverly Hills * *
Starring : Natasha Lyonne,
Director: Tamara Jenkins
W
hy does every film with a bud-
get under twenty million bucks
feel obliged to be so self-con-
sciously 'arty'? It seems that every low
budget US film has to force itself into a
set of fixed rules for so called 'indepen-
dent' movies, forget the fact that Slums
of Beverly Hillswas in fact bankrolled by
Fox (one of thc biggest media groups in
the world), and cue up bizzare music, a
nonsensical plot, a seventies setting
and lots of conversations about breasts.
Ah yes, breasts, the driving narrative
force behind Slums is Natasha fyonne's
doubts over said part of her anatomy and
the problems they cause. She asks all and
sundry their opinion, and seems to
spend all her time trying to hide them,
have them surgically reduced or pretend
they don't exist. And, of course, along the
way she manages to lose her virginity,
gain an insight into those around her and
grow to love her family. How very Amer-
ican.
Meanwhile, her father (Arkin) has
his own set of financially orientated prob-
lems, forcing thc family to move from
shoddy apartment to shoddy apartment
every time he can't afford thc rent, tven-
tually he stoops to taking in his drug
addled niece in return for monthly
cheques from his brother. Although this
allows them to move into a much nicer
flat, it thtows up a new set of (entirely
predictable) problems.
In principle, this probably isn't a bad
movie, providing a nice example of the
lengths people will go to to protect their
children (Arkin insists on living in Beverly
Hills to ensure his kids get to go to a
good school), plus some nice comic
touches. However, the clear insistence
on producing something that can be
labelled as 'indie film-making' swamps
the dramatic thrust in meaningless, point-
less gibberish: the staccato Mexican-influ-
enced incidental music rapidly begins
to grate; thc performances are driven
needlessly over thc top; and the film
eventually eschews unbelievability to
drown instead in a sea of schmaltz. Oh,
and why is it set in thc seventies?
In essence, this is pretty standard
coming-of-age-drama fare which, in the
hands of the tight production company
(Film four or the BBC for example) could
have been a good and successful movie.
Sadly, however, the world doesn't work
that way, and US producers quite happily
throw money at anything they consider
'indie' just to clear their conscience. Oh
well, yet another thing to blame on
Rupert Murdoch. D
Dave

