30 November 1998
Games 25
Michael Owen's WLS '99 (PSX)
For those with fish memory cells
here's what Michaels mug looks like
You've seen the taster, entered the com-
petition and failed to win the free copy
courtesy of Eidos International. You also
want something to replace the copy of
ISS pro or World League Soccer '98, or
even one of the Electronic Arts' FIFA
range that is gathering dust in the cor-
ner of the room. The question put for-
ward is thus - is the Michael Owen
product a wonderful team effort that
will silence all opposition or a badly put
together no hoper relegated to the foot-
balling failure league.
The short answer is unfortu-
nately neither. If it had been the
great leap forward that football
gamers have been waiting for my
review would have been short
and sweet - Buy it one and all, for
it bears the seal of approval. If it
was the complete bobbins (rather 1
like the 3 lions game) destined for MMjpj
the bargain bin in Electronic Bou HBBBH
tiques all round the country I could I
have slagged it off all the way to WBWWjf^
its £19.95 price sticker. Unfortu- WtKKKKm
nately World League soccer does exactly
what it says on the case. It is a soccer
game where you can play pretty much
any team from around the world.
Graphically and game playing wise
it is not much more advanced than pre-
viously released games. The players walk
about the pitch smoothly, the goal-
keepers look semi-intelligent, even the
referee follows the flow of the game and
shows more humanity than most Pre-
miership referees ever will. But the
crowds still look as if they have been
involved in an industrial accident with a
very heavy weight and players manage
to miss passes and interceptions that
even IC First team would be hard pressed
to miss.
At least there is an analogue control
option, a very useful addition for pre-
cisely guiding the players round the pitch
but this alone appears to be the only
obvious improvement. Nothing else
stands out, and this is a large problem.
At the final whistle it is just an average
football game, the snow and the rain
effects arc nice but this game will not
leave a lasting impression.
Gary 5.
Ijifffili
NEWS
Nightmare -Dreamcast
While the hype clears and reality reaches
the shops (well in Japan if not here), it
appears that Sega are having problems
with manufacturing the new unit. The
problem is reported to be a serious one
in initial production to an extent that
certain sources were predicting up to a
80% shortfall in predicted numbers of
units by the end of the year. Sega still
intend to produce 500 000 machines
before the end of the year, with an ini-
tial batch of 150 000 followed by a later
batch of 300 000. Although not affecting
the UK yet it could lead to knock on prob-
lems and further delays before legiti-
mate machines make it into our rooms.
Going down to Rio
Once again wo are going to have to wait
while another nice bit of gadgetry gets
released elsewhere - this time in Amer-
ica. Diamond Multimedia, fresh out of a
court case with the Recording Industry
Association of America, is just about to
start selling the first commercial MP3
player, forget music being stored on
spinning silver disks we are talking about
proper solid state playback. Just down-
load your choices from the net and you
can skip and jump about the; room for
hours without your music doing the
same. Diamond are planning to launch
the Rio in the UK next month possibly
just after theChristmas holiday period. All
you gadget fiends out there can start sav-
ing your Christmas present money.
Wanted: Dead or alive
Last sighted In: Tokyo, Japan
• •:. :•.
Hoodoo Voodoo
3 Dfx has gone mad with power and has
now announced that there will be a new
2D/3D acceleration chip: the Voodoo3.
Having ditched the pure 3D accelera-
tion route it looks to dominate the full
graphics card market, from the reported
specifications it looks excellent. 3D per-
formance is not compromised as it per-
forms belter than two linked Voodoo 2
boards - 7 million triangles per second.
2D wise it can deliver resolutions of
2048x1536 at 751 Iz and has hardware for
M-PEG2/DVD operations so you can
watch those nice DVD films. Unfortu-
nately you won't find it blocking your
stocking as it's not due for release until
next March-April.
You looking at me
The game competition is back for a second week.
Win a copy of Gangsters courtesy of Eidos Interactive
So you think you can make it out there in the big bad world. Here is a chance to
show that crime does pay as you start out as a minor hoodlum and attempt to climb
the greasy ladder to crime king. Hire some good right hand men and you too could
be going out with Barbara Windsor. Or you could just enter the competition and
win a copy of Gangsters for the PC courtesy of Eidos Interactive. Send the correct
answers to the following Gangster based questions into the office or to fellx@lc.ac.uk,
get picked by the hand of fair Helena and you could be appearing in print just like
the lucky punter on the left.
1. Who were the directors of the rather excellent gangster movie Millers Crossing
2. What movie features 3 bright coloured minis, the mafia, and a heist in Turin?
3. What was the nickname of Eliot Ness' good guys?
"So disproportionately
| rotund Tony came to me
and made me an offer I
couldn't refuse. So me
and my partner decided
to hide uptown next to
a house of women of
questionable virtue till
the person of Italian
parentage had calmed
I down" - Yep definitely
PC Gangsters.

