26 Sport 30 November 1998
Rugby
SPONSORED BY UniLever
ist XV
IC 37 - 0 St George's
So...the moment we had all been wait-
ing for. The league was within our grasp,
with only the bottom team to beat. We
wanted their girth and we were deter-
mined to get it.
Our kit was gleaming white and as
soft as a baby's behind, having been
washed with Persil and softened with
Lenor.
Things got started badly with Bud-
bud-bud-buddha dropping the ball a lot.
He finally redeemed himself by scoring
2 tries so scorching hot that we all
needed lots of Walls Ice Cream to cool
down afterwards.
Dave offered in some Poppadums at
halftime, with our piping hot cups of PG
tips. The second half allowed us to add
3 more tries to our total. The scores, Tref,
Willis and the arc-angel Gabriel all cele-
brated with lashings of Coleman's mus-
tard after the game. In all a good
performance, although we will have to
do a lot better in our promotion play-off
match next week.
After the game wc all put on our
Lynx deoderant and CK aftershave, to cel-
ebrate winning the game and thc
league. But Dan and Tref covered them-
selves with Flora and went fot a kebab.
IC played 6, won 6. Points difference:
+259. [
1 may have to consider charging
for advertising space if I get any more
articles like this - Gus].
2nd XV
IC II 46 - 5 St George's
(Last week's score 75 - 7 V UCH)
We have travelled over mist covered
mountains from our homeland IC. But
our true home is Harlington and always
will be. Someday we will return to South-
side's loving arms and no longer burn to
be brothers in arms.
Fields of destruction and baptisms
of fire, all witness their suffering as the
points score soared higher, but we did
not desert our brothers in arms. So
many different teams and so many inef-
ficient scores. Now we strive harder to
conquer other shores. Now the sun
gone to hell and the beer is flowing fine.
Let me bid you farewell, every man has
to die. Cry havoc and let slip the dogs
of war!!
RSM Football
RSM I 0 - 1 LSE I
RSM 1 st XI took a crucial step in the Pre-
mier league after what can only be
described as a nightmare start to the sea-
son.
The chips were once again down as
they entertained LSE firsts - who were the
only team that had beaten last year's
champions and last week's tormentors
QMW. Any pre-match nerves were
quashed, courtesy of Tara and her amaz-
ing bristiol's, which put real purpose and
hope into the heart's of a team with a
mountain to climb, although no expla-
nation was given as to why Skip Mase-
field threw up four times. With Jim York's
late arrival after helping out his mum
(such a nice lad), the RSM massive was
primed and ready.
With a strong wind behind them,
LSE turned on the pressure early in the
match, with a string of corners, which
were virtually impossible to keeper Mark
Dwyer to deal with. Yet time after time,
the ball was bundled away and increas-
ingly RSM started to play.
After about half an hour, RSM had
what proved to be their two best
chances of the match. The first was a
free kick on the edge of the box which
Welsh wizard John Williams skillfully bent
around the wall only for it to be palmed
around by a flying fSE keeper. A few
minutes latet and a flowing move that
linked all areas of the offense together,
like a string of shiny pearls, culminating
in debutante Doug Spikes firing a shot
past the upright, a chance which RSM
could ill afford to miss.
Sure enough they were made to
pay as an onslaught from LSE early in the
second half proved too much to handle
and eventually the RSM resistance was
broken. A shot from outside the area,
which keeper Dwyer got his hand to,
crept into the goal.
The rest of the match was played out
in a low key manner, although RSM did
threaten towards the end, but the
accountants had their pencil's sharp-
ened and as usual weren't giving any-
thing away.
So two games, two defeats. A far
from perfect start, but with next week's
cup match, thc confidence should be
raised. A far more professional perfor-
mance from the team, although thc day
surely belonged to Tara.
Tiddlywinks
WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
Andy Purvis (IC) 31 - Larry Kahn (USA) 19
Imperial College's most successful but
least known 'sport' was taking place last
Thursday at the out of town Silwood
Park campus. Previous victories over
Oxford University have established IC as
the.country's second tiddlywinking Insti-
tution coincidentally with its rise to that
position in thc national University league
tables.
The tiddlywinks club, which meets every
Monday, also boasts that rare commod-
ity among IC societies - the World Cham-
pion. Dr. Andy Purvis, of the Department
of Biology, has recently struck a rich vein
of tiddlywink form, winning the world
championship earlier this year and sub-
sequently achieving.something of a
grand slam of the national doubles and
singles tournaments. Larry Kahn, how-
ever, had won this most coveted winks
trophy no less than 18 times over the
years, so when the American laid down
his challenge the stage was set for a
mouthwatering showdown.
This was thc 49th ever world champi-
onship match, and an appropriate num-
ber of spectators gathered to watch as
the two gladiators stalked into the arena:
as is well established, the winner in these
meetings is thc first to 24.5 points, effec-
tively making it a best out of 7 games
competition.
Both contenders were affected by the
big-game atmosphere at first - after thc
first four games which featured one or
two shaky errors, as well as a clear-up of
rare quality from the local boy, the score
was level at 14 all. At this crucial psy-
chological moment, Purvis played his
home advantage card and suggested a
dinner-break in the pub. A risky strategy,
but one which paid off - after dropping
a point in the first game back, the Eng-
lish champion then potted aggressively
in the last two games to romp gleefully
home with a clear margin of 12 points.
Football
ICV3 - 1 S.O.P
After a string of disappointing results
the fifths were determined to get a result
out of this game. We played poorly but
they were worse than us and after a
constant barrage on their goal the break-
through came when Will "still pissed
from last night" Doubar danced through
the penalty area and was hacked to the
floor by one of their donkeys. Team cap-
tain Andy Chlua calmly walked up and
shot a crap penalty to the right of the
keeper and in off the post. They
defended on the halfway line and after
having twenty-odd offside decision given
against us (thanks Warren), the pressure
paid off after some nice movement in
midfield produced a pass to Adi who
blasted it into the top right hand corner.
They scored a crap equaliser ('nuff said)
and then on the break Tom Walker pro-
duced a peach of a cross to Andy who
slotted it first time into the corner. It did-
n't feel like a win, but forget about the
performance - we need the points!
IC Virgins
IC 10 - 0 Royal Holloway
On a cold grey day in November, the vir-
gins notched up another fantastic vic-
tory, fries were scored by Betsy and little
Clare, with conversions only narrowly
missed by Ronny, despite being right on
the touch line. We were a player short
yet again, despite "recruiting" Sabine,
Cari-ann, Leanne and Betsy.
The forwards dominated play, with
Michelle, Lisa and Kiersten surviving in
thc front row despite the collapsing
scrums (due to the inability of their no.
8 to walk backwards). Thc tackling was
immense with Clare dumping their wing
every time and Kiersten making them
squeal. We pushed them back in the
scrum every time, usually gaining at
least 20m. We've discovered Big Clare's
left hook, Summma's novel tackling and
Chris and Chrissy's power in the scrum.
Wc spent most of the time camped in
their half and on the very few occasions
they squeezed into ours, Romy's kicking
sent them scurrying back lo their try
line.
Archery
L'Muppet makes her mark
Sunday thc 22nd saw the spanking new
team from ICRPC, the archery team,
enter the BUSA Southern Area Champi-
onships held at Brunei University. The
Archery Captain, Leo 'The Muppet' Lang
got the day off to a good start by getting
the team lost. Fortunately wiser minds
(Phil Golds Ihe RPC captain) were at
hand and steered the team in the tight
direction. We arrived fashionably late
and were fortunate to get into the next
session. The team kicked off well, slap-
ping their arrows into thc gold time
after time. I he other competitors could
only stand and admire the evident skill
of our toxophilists. At the end of a great
performance our archers had all gained
respectable positions on the scoreboard,
with Leo coming third (it'll be first next
time) in the Ladies competition and Seb
Tsakok achieving a personal best. We left
in jubilant mood and went to celebrate
with a scorching curry and painted
Uxbridge a nice shade of yellow with
carroty bils.

