30 November 1998 Sport 27
Fortress
Teddington
Remains Intact
ICSM 41 -10 CHICHESTER
First (medics) played third in thc BUSA
premiership last Wednesday to see who
would finish top out of IMRFC and
Brunei. Brunei had to have beaten Bris-
tol by more than 35 points to finish above
IMRFC.
An exciting match saw 15 early min-
utes of stalemate with James Piatt's run
to the corner in the 8th minute being the
closest thc medics came to an initial try.
However, from that tun a platform of
pressure was built up, resulting in Chich-
ester conceding a penalty only 15 yards
from their line. A quick tap by Mike
Jackson, scrum-half, put Simon Nee-
quaye, thc number 8, over for a try under
the posts. This was converted by Oliver
Kayes.
Three minutes later and the medics
went further ahead through a try by
James Piatt in the corner which wasn't
converted. This period of points scoring
Ultimate Frisbee
Imperial qualifies for National Student
Indoor Finals!
Ihe Southeast Student Indoor Qualifiers
were held in Brighton during the week-
end of the 21st. This was the first ever
competition that the Imperial Ultimate
team has entered since it started at the
beginning of the year.
Indoor Ultimate is played in a simi-
lar way to thc outdoor version, with a few
changes. Thc basic rules of no running
with the disc, and scoring in end zones
are the same, but the indoot pitch is
smaller, and you play with fewer players
(5 a side, instead of 7). But apart form
that it is (almost) thc same.
Our first game was at 10:30 on Sat-
urday morning, so we had time for a bit
culminated in a psychologically damag-
ing push over try for the medics, again
scored by Simon Neequaye. Another
conversion meant that with still ten min-
utes to go to half time the medics had
built up a 19 point cushion.
Sadly, a lapse in concentration
resulted in a penalty being awarded to
Chichester right in front of IMRFC's posts,
which was duly converted.
The best play of the first half how-
ever was reserved for the last move-
ment. Quick ball spun wide, from a
Chichester mistake, resulted in an excit-
ing break from the halfway line by lain
Mcleod, who held his pass until just the
right moment to scissor with the left
wing James Piatt resulting in another try
beneath the posts. This interplay
between these two players highlighted
an understanding built upon match after
match of playing together, and was evi-
dent all day.
After half time, where Chichester
made four changes, the teams initially
appeared more even and a converted try
by the away side led to moments of
worry amongst the many supporters pre-
sent. However, with twelve minutes left
Piatt rounded off his hat trick, again after
of spectating. Watching the first teams
play, we realised that perhaps at least
ONE indoot practice would have been
wise. It looked like a different game to
thc outdoor one we were used to. We
were not too optimistic. But hey, it was
our first competition, so wc just wanted
to have a laugh. And besides, one good
thing had come out the weekend
already, wc had a team name!
Having won two of our first thtec
games we were through to the next
round. Wow! No time for celebrating,
just time to check to see who we were
playing. Hmmm. Because we had come
second in our poo! (with the Skunks
first), we had been drawn against the
Sussex Uni. Mohawks. This was the
team who had won the indoor finals
(not just the qualifiers) the two previous
years. This was the team who were
seeded first, and were looking like they
a well timed pass by Mcleod. This was
unconverted, but mindful of thc issue of
points difference necessary to temain
ahead of Brunei, the medics pack
appeared stronger and fitter than the
opposition in the last ten minutes. But-
locking runs, especially by thc captain,
Ben Catpcntcr, and two younger players,
Ben Spicgleberg and Greg Thomas, gave
Simon Rogers, the medics fly half, thc
platform he had been looking for all
day, and his scything tun resulted in a
subsequent maul on the opposition 22,
from which he ran throught to score an
unconverted try.
The final play of the match, a quick
throw in, was taken with contemptuous
arrogance by Mcleod, within yards of two
or three Chichestet players allowed James
Piatt thtough to score his fourth and the
medics seventh try of the day.
All being well this pushes the medics
into European student competition next
year and in more recent times towards a rel-
atively simple draw in the last sixteen of
BUSA. No team in the country though will
want to visit thc new Theatre of Dreams'
down at fortress Teddington.
were gonna win. Wc had watched them,
and seen thc mighty powet of Locks!
(and also thc nice looking girl, who was
excellent!)
But somehow we won! This meant
we had got thtough to the final four
(with a possibility of winning (yeah right)),
but mote importantly it means that we
ate through to the Student Indoor Ulti-
mate Finals, where we will play against
thc best student teams in the country!!
Back again on Sunday, to take on
Cambtidgc. Wc scored first, but then
things went down hill, eventually losing
3 - 9. They wete through to thc final, and
we had one more game, thc thitd place
play off against Cranfield. We were tiring,
and they made an excellent come back
to just beat us 5 - 4.
For information about Ultimate, thc
wickedest spott alive, email: ulti-
mate@ic.ac.uk!
Hockey
IC I 2 - 1 King's
With thc league already won and the
promise of pub golf after the game, all
of our team showed the pace and agility
of a large fridge. After going one down,
we were kick started into playing just the
same (if not wotse).
Half time came as a relief and the
second half statted with the introduction
of last yeat's captain Chicken Boi. With
a scintillating run down the right he off
loaded to kamikazi, who moved the
ball around four players and placed it in
the back of the net. Noddy had a solid
match at the back, keeping the Kings for-
wards in check and with the help of Ihe
defence, set up the basis for the next
goal. This time Chicken Bol broke
through the defence, only to be denied
by the keeper. However, Blue Under-
pants was on hand to finish. This left the
Legends with a 100% record, primed
and ready for the BUSA knockout stages.
Volleyball
After three successive wins and one
walker, ICU Men's team secured their
place in the final knockout stages of
the BUSA championships. Meanwhile in
the ULU 1st division, IC continued to play
well, giving us a realistic chance of fin-
ishing within the top three. "The Con-
tortionist" had some excellent sets from
impossible angles, allowing "No. 2" to
spike through fout. In middle, the
"Incomprehensible German" blocked
well and solid defensive play from the
Greeks has seen us winning neatly al
our matches. Barring any major blun-
ders, ICU Men's could well end the sea-
son in a very strong position.
Diversions
Around IC
Mon 30 Tues 1 Wed 2 Thurs 3 Fri 4 Sat 5 Sun 6
CAG Tools for Self
Reliance - Basement of
Beit Quad 6pm
Standing Room Only -
DaVinci's Bar 7pm
Quiz Night - DaVinci's
Bar 8pm
CAG Soup Run 8pm
Basement, Weeks Hall
Caving Club Meeting -
Southside Lounge 9pm
Club XS-ICU 9pm-1am Cocktail Night
DaVinci's Bar 5-11pm
CAG Soup Run 8pm
Basement, Weeks Hall
Pop Tarts - ICU
9pm-2am
Electric Cafe - dBs
8pm-12am
Standing Room Only -
DaVinci's Bar 4pm

