30 November 1998 News
In brief...
Liverpool to leave NUS?
Liverpool's Hope University College has
become the latest institution to con-
template leaving the NUS. After a debate
last Monday, where speakers from
UMIST, who have recently disaffiliated,
and the NUS put forward their cases,
their Union held a meeting to discuss the
matter. The outcome was unknown as
Felix went to press.
BioChem Blaze: Fire
Crew's Six Hour Labour
There was panic in the Biochemistry
building on the afternoon of Friday 20
when it caught fire. As part of a pilot plant
demolition builders were re-tarring an
area of roofing. It is alleged that this set
some fibre-board in an adjoining wall
cavity smouldering. Unfortunately, this
happened to connect to a cold room,
used for genetic tests on plants, which
was insulated with asbestos-cement
walls.
At 4.45pm the fire alarm was set off
and the building evacuated. The
BioChem authorities, still unclear as to
the exact cause of the smoke, called the
fire brigade. Fearing the worst, they sent
seven fire engines and a special chemi-
cal spillage crew. The area was immedi-
ately sealed off and work was started to
put the fire out and make safe the
asbestos. This took them until 11.00pm
that night. Despite all this upheaval, Bio-
Chemistry were very keen to make it
clear that at no point was anyone in any
serious danger.
Charges Dropped
Charges against one of the students
involved in damaging the Southside bar-
rier [Felix 1126] have been dropped.
Another student involved in the incident
could still face charges and is currently
part of a police investigation. Ken Weir,
Chief Security Officer, was unable to
comment further until the police inves-
tigation is completed.
Open Verdict on
Student Death
The coroner investigating the death of a
student in I isher Hall before the start of
term has recorded an open verdict. The
student was found in his room by a sub-
warden some time after he had died.
There had been some speculation that
the death may be suspicious, fuelled by
rumours that the student's friend who
was with him on the day of his death left
the country before the body was found.
The coroner's report will hopefully end
the matter, showing the incident to be
a tragic accident.
Two Stand in
Union Elections
Two candidates have stood for the posi-
tion of Deputy President (Clubs & Soci-
eties). Marie Nicholou and Tim Trailor
were the two fully seconded nominees
when Felix went to press. Hustings will
take place next Monday (in dB's), Tues-
day (at Charing Cross) and Wednesday (at
St Mary's). Voting will take place in all
departments the following Monday and
Tuesday, with the results announced on
Tuesday evening.
Lost Property
On 15 October a coat was taken from
Footlights in High Street Kensington. The
coat is believed to have been handed to
a group of IC students by mistake when
they were given their own jackets by the
restaurant staff. The navy coat is made by
Tommy Hillfiger and is blue, and had an
Eriksson mobile phone in one of the
pockets. The owner of the coat and
phone has reported the incident to the
police. If any student has the coat, or has
any more information, they should con-
tact security on 58900.
Rag Week
By Sarah Coburn
Things have been moving along since
you last read about Rag and what we do.
I'm pleased to say that we now have six
members of the committee, which
means that things can begin to get mov-
ing. This is good as it isn't very long until
Rag week itself! Events in the pipeline for
Rag week include a hypnotist, a monop-
oly pub crawl, and hopefully the Royal
College of Science Union Beer Festival.
The problems that have arisen with the
beer festival are due to College saying no
to the use of the JCR. At the moment
alternative venues are being looked at so
fingers crossed.
This term we arc going to start run-
ning a cloakroom in the Union on Friday
nights from 9pm until closing. It will be
50p an item and all money taken goes
straight to Rag. So even if you don't do
anything else to help us this year let us
look after your coat for you!
On 2 December the RCSU will be
having a circle line pub crawl, everyone
is welcome - lookout for the posters for
details. They will be collecting in the
pubs on the way and once again all
money collected goes to Rag. It'll be a
good laugh and makes a change from
the normal Wednesday afternoon activ-
ities!
The week after on 7 December, we
are carol singing at Charing Cross BR
Station, in aid of 'Alone in London', a
charity which helps homeless young
people in London. It should be a good
fundraiser but we are looking for volun-
teers to join our singers. It doesn't mat-
ter how good or bad you arc! Anyone
interested should contact me via email
at sarah.coburn@ic.ac.uk.
We arc still looking for people to
help out, so if you are interested or want
to find out more feel free to email me
or leave a message on the office answer
machine, ext 58099.
Forged Notes
In the last few weeks there have been a
couple of incidences of forged bank
notes being used in transactions at Impe-
rial College Union trading outlets. Stu-
dents are asked to remember that these
notes are worthless, and will not be
accepted as currency. Attempting to use
a note that you know or suspect to be
forged is an offence, so it is worth being
aware of the distinguishing features
between forged and true notes.
The detail on forged notes is often
blurred or missing, and the colours are
usually slightly different from true notes.
The silver thread in true notes is visible
when held up to the light - this line is
often painted on forged notes. A water-
mark (of the Queen's head) should be
clearly visible when held up to the light
and nol blurred. Lastly, the printing on
true notes is slightly raised, and the feel
of the paper is very different from most
normal paper used by printers and pho-
tocopiers.
G U I 8c B L O W D R Y
B Y O U R T O P S T Y L I S T S
& 2 0 L A J O I E S
& 1 7 M E N
Normal Price £35
HAIRSALON
-^^^^J^ 'Still the best student offer!
A C C E S S VISA M A S T E R C A R D C A S H C H E Q U E S
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW7 3ES
(I Minute walk from
South Kensington Tube)
Telephone 0171 823 8968

