News 30 November 1998
RCSU Torn by Light runs out of
Poor Turnout Steam
By Gareth Morgan By Andrew Ofori
After two months of uncertainty, the
Royall College of Science Union has
belatedly elected Simon Torn as their
President. The result was announced
last Tuesday night in the Union Bar,
after an election which, despite the
efforts of the Union, remained stub-
bornly low-profile.
Mr Torn, a second year Physicist,
who was defeated in last year's elec-
tion for RCSU VP and ICU Council
Chair, was the only candidate, and
stood against the ever-present New
Election. The Hustings, held on Eriday
20 November in the JCR, were
attended by only two students other
than those directly involved in the
election: a Departmental Rep and a
Felix reportet, both members of the
RCSU's General Committee. This was in
spite of an excess of one hundred
posters put up around the College in
the week leading up to the Hustings.
In the two days of voting, only 100
votes were cast - about 4% of the elec-
torate Mr Torn received seventy votes
and was duly elected. Thc RCSU Vice
President (finance) Will Bently pointed
out, however, that this was a better
percentage than the estimated turnout
for the aborted IC Union Deputy Pres-
ident (Clubs & Societies) election,
where approximately 100-500 votes
were cast from an electorate of over
nine thousand.
the Union celebrated in the tradi-
tional manner, giving away free beer
to the few who turned up to hear the
results, fot a College which suppos-
edly has the highest alcohol con-
sumption per capita of any students
union in thc country, Imperial's soci-
eties find it surprisingly hard to give
away free beer. The promise of a drink
for anyone who voted did not appear
to have greatly affected the overall
turnout.
Mr Torn was pleased with his vic-
tory, saying that he was "delighted to
be given this opportunity" and pledg-
ing to "ensure that the Union does
something for its students."
The speed of light is slowing down,
according to a new theoty to be pub-
lished soon. If space observations prove
it to be correct, much of this century's
work in theotetica! physics, including
many of Einstein's famous theories, will
need to be adjusted.
The textbook-rewriting theory, pro-
posed byjoao Magneijo (Royal research
fellow at Imperial College) and Andreas
Albrecht (formerly of IC but now of the
University of California at Davis), says
that the speed of light immediately after
the big bang was much faster than
today's accepted value, and has been
slowing down ever since.
By daring to challenge one of thc
most basic assumptions of theoretical
physics the theory is bound to come
under close scrutiny from scientists
across the globe, focusing thc spotlight
on Imperial once again. Dr Magneijo
commented "If it's true, it would be a
very big leap forward that will affect our
perception of the universe and much of
theoretical physics."
Assuming the big bang model to
be true, moments after the big bang,
light could only cross from one side of
the universe to the other if it moved
much quicker than the previously
assumed constant velocity. This new
hypothesis suggests that this could be as
much as the current value (3 x 108
m/s)
multiplied by a 70 figure number!
The theory offers elegant proofs for
many phenomena which previous the-
ories have failed lo satisfactorily ratio-
nalise. It supplies the best explanation
yet for the speed at which the universe
is expanding, which is thought to be
fast enough to prevent collapse, result-
ing in a 'big crunch' in this case, the ulti-
mate fate of the univetsc would be a
slow, drawn-out death as all the stars
burn out and every particle of matter
within the universe separates.
The new theory rivals the currently
accepted model of inflation to describe
what happened immediately after thc
big bang. It will be published in full in the
scientific journal Physical Review D.
STEC Presents
Club 414, 10th December
414 Colcftarbomr Itmxmf B.rixto:»
TECHNO TRANCE ACID TECHNO

