ft
Letters 30 November 1998
Resignation Explanation
Many medical students over the last few
days, especially those I saw at the won-
derful Winter Ball, asked me my reasons
for resigning my post on ICSMSU last
week. The decision was not one taken
lightly but after several agonising days of
contemplation.
I was upset by the way Seif Ahmed
(ex-VPI CX) was treated by certain mem-
bers of the union executive, who con-
tinually undermined his position,
sometimes to people as high up as Pro-
fessor Whitehouse, and threatening such
nonsenses as votes of no confidence.
This in someone the electorate convinc-
ingly voted in less than five months ear-
lier. Seif should have been urged to stay,
and I believe would have done had he
felt support coming from the President.
Andy Heeps was potentially the most
useful person on the union, knowing
the IC red tape system better than any-
one else, and being well respected by
many at IC. His decision to leave was
probably more due to personal differ-
ences with some members of the SU
than anything to do with leaving a failing
union as was quoted in last weeks Felix.
However, I didn't resign just to follow
suit. I was extremely angered by the loss
of £3000 from the medical school reserve
funds, due to a botched attempt at a
Graduation Ball. Members of the SU from
Mary's were not even aware this was
going to occur until less than a week
before Graduation Day. That money was
so precious in a year when there is talk
of charging clubs more money for
minibuses, and although ICU authorised
the deposit being put down, it is not I.C
students who have lost the money but
medical clubs and societies.
Working on the executive this year
was many more times harder than last
year, due a lot to poor communication.
I missed important meetings on more
than one occasion when I was given
less than two hours notice that I should
attend. As a non-sabbatical doing the
new clinical course, which is heavily
timetabled, I needed a lot of notification
for meetings. This left me looking incom-
petent, especially when our sabbatical
President made the same meetings.
I have been criticised by various
members of the union since my resig-
nation, saying I have 'given in'. Maybe
this is the case, but the atmosphere sur-
rounding the SU was one which left no
way to discuss problems with those who
matter. I know that the departure of the
other two and myself has also angered
some students and I hope you ask why
things have been allowed to get this
bad. It has certainly upset me, but there
comes a time when I can no longer carry
out the job that you expect of me due to
the circumstances I find myself working
in. I will continue to support the SU,
especially the VPI at St. Mary's, who is
doing an extremely good job.
Finally, it may be reported that we
have a failing union, that in some way
the medics are weakened, certain colum-
nists in this newspaper may claim we are
in disarray. Don't believe a word of it - the
union is not as strong as the executive
who run it, but the other way around, the
executive is as strong as the student
body it represents and serves. None of
my actions or this letter will in any way
weaken our medical school. In the four
months of it's existence it has already
shown itself to be far stronger than anyin-
dividual, and I continue to be proud to
be a member of it,
Yours sincerely,
Oliver Warren.
Correction
Dear Felix,
I'd like to make a correction to the arti-
cle "Marching for More Money" (Felix
1127). The very first sentence labels the
national demonstrationfor grants not
loans last Wednesday as "A Socialist
Worker demonstration". Though the SWP,
as is their right, did take a leading role in
advertising the demo, the demonstration
was called by "Unite for Free Education",
an umbrella group encompassing the
Campaign for free Education, the Stop
the Fees Campaign, and Save Free Edu-
cation. It also had the support of Student
Unions Against the Act and 40 individual
student unions around the country.
Perhaps this is all lost on some peo-
ple, but the number of people I've heard
who stated that they weren't going /
didn't go because "it's a Socialist Worker
demonstration" I think justifies this
response. Still I'd like to congratulate this
years Felix team, especially Ed Sexton, in
taking an interest in the student move-
ment. There is a world outside Imperial!
George Constantinidcs
Unix one, Microsoft nil
Dear Felix,
Recently Bill Gates received his second
cream pie in the face from the ever insur-
gent Biotic Baking Brigade. But it seems
though that we're not united in our dis-
gust of Microsoft's practices and prod-
ucts. This year the Physics department
'upgraded' by getting rid of its Unix run ter-
minals in the undergraduate computer
room and replacing them with windows
NT. At the same time they actually expect
students to meet deadlines, even though
they may have all their work erased in the
meantime, have to wait up to five minutes
to open an application and sit on the
edge of their chairs hoping that it won't
crash. Furthermore, Microsoft's assets are
more than four times the amount of
money needed to pay off the entire 3rd
world debt owed to the United States,
which currently ensures that the markets
of these countries arc about as free' as
Alcatraz and controlled entirely by the
Microsoft oriented IMI, WTO and World
Bank. Do us at! a favour Physics and give
us our COMPUTERS back.
Yours etc
Thomas N. D. Tibbits
Summer Ball Update
Dear Felix,
Fhe Imperial College Summer Ball cur-
rently being planned for next summer is
going to be a huge and spectacular event.
However every contribution can help to
make it even better than planned. If you
have any input and ideas for the event
then let us know. We want to hear from
EVERYONE including those of you who
went last year, or from anyone who has
been to similar totally wicked events else-
where.
Please note that the e-mail address
published in the last edition of felix is
WRONG. Please send all ideas to the
Committee at summer.bail@ic.ac.uk
See you all in June,
The Summer Ball Committee
East Meets West?
Dear Felix
It seems as though Karan Kapoor, Social
Chair of Charing Cross, has again put his
foot in it! East meets West is a cultural
show that has been run jointly by the
Indian Society and Charing Cross for a
number of years. This year, the show
was organised by Mr Kapoor and the
Indian Society President, Roopa Arora.
Advertisement for the show had long
been organised and distributed through-
out the University of London. However,
earlier this [i.e. last - Ed I week, alternative
flyers were found in the BMS building
stating the show was "run by medics".
With reference to KK's letter in issue
1126, the notion that all students are
equal seems to be false. Given that KK
co-organised the show, the appearance
of these flyers in the BMS (and not else-
where) seems to suggest that his com-
mitment to integration is non-existent. As
an apparently "respected" member of
the CX medical school, KK should realise
that telling these lies generates integra-
tion problems that the college as a whole
Is trying to eradicate.
Taking credit for weeks of hard work
done by non-medic members of the
Indian Society is not clever. On a per-
sonal note, I feel that not distributing
these flyers across the University is a lit-
tle spineless. Perhaps others should pon-
der the notion that the animosity
between CX medics and IC is something
that is actively being generated from the
upper reaches of the CX student com-
mittee.
Taj,
VP Indian Society
Desperation for RCSU
Dear Sir,
It would appear that the plight of the
RCSU has been ignored by the majority
of its members. Flow many of the 2500
or so students actually know that on
Monday and Tuesday last week, the
RCSU Presidency elections were held?
Not many, if you judge from the results.
Firstly, there was only one candidate,
Simon Tom. Has anyone ever met him?
For myself, I can say that the only pub-
licity I ever saw was a "vote for Tim"
poster in the Sherfield Building. Does
anyone ever believe that a president
that has a half-committed attitude to
publicity for the election, is ever going to
be committed his job? Secondly, the vot-
ing, which took place last week, was
attended by approximately 4% of the
electorate. Can I suggest that the RCSU
needs to get its act together?
The RCSU is getting desperate. They
need help fast, and I might suggest that
if it doesn't get it, it might as well just give
up, because it probably won't make
much difference for those it is supposed
to be working for. But, it has to ask. I am
sure that if it asked now and tried adver-
tising the benefits of working for the
RCSU, then it would get it, but, of course,
it takes publicity.
I hope that the RCSU gets help soon,
because there is so much that can be
done, but they just don't have the
resources, so if anyone has ever felt that
they would like to help, the they will
welcome you in with open arms, and you
might even get a biscuit.
What's the Fuss About?
Dear Felix,
It appears that Mr Osa Fmohare has
caused quite a stir amongst Felix readers.
I find it rather surprising that his famous
letter had any responses, considering its
length! However, the subsequent 'points
of view1
that have followed, have made
for some very interesting reading.
As a non-medic, I believe that inte-
gration with the medics should be
encouraged. After all, they arc part of
Imperial College now and should be
treated as such. Ask yourself, medic or
non-medic, does it really matter?
Melvin Lewis
Physics II

