sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 Friday 8 May 2009
felix
Sport
25
felix
Friday 8 May 2009
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
All conquering
Wilson House
claim the double
Last Sunday 22nd March saw the cli-
max of the Interhall Football season,
with Wilson House winning the Kay
Dillan Trophy against Piccadilly Court,
courtesy of a dramatic late goal in the
dying minutes of extra-time. The 1-0
victory AET means the undefeated
Wilson House team completed the
league and cup double to the delight
of all the Wilsonites, past and present,
around College.
Every Sunday for the first two terms,
a selection of Imperial halls of resi-
dences battle it out with each other
around various London Parks, with the
top eight teams in the league then pro-
gressing to a knock-out competition.
The semi finals on the previous Sunday
saw Wilson ease past Clayponds 3-0
with a brace from Javier De Esteban
Chocarro, whereas Piccadilly Court
just edged passed league runners-up
Fisher Hall with a 3-2 victory.
The cup final match itself was played
at Hyde Park, with the erratic surface
giving the match the special magi-
cal aura that makes Interhall Foot-
ball so thrilling for all those involved.
Both teams had brought with them
a group of supporters, with Wilson
out numbering the Piccadilly three to
one. Chants of “gimme a P, gimme a
C” came and went, with “We love you
Wilson, We do” ringing throughout the
afternoon.
The match itself was played with
high tempo and was full of end-to
-end action. Wilson were playing high
up the field with the midfielders win-
ning the aerial challenges in the mid-
dle of the park. For all their pressure
Wilson looked most dangerous from
their large number of corners, with one
header clipping the top of the cross bar
at the end of the first half.
In the second half it was Piccadilly
who came closest to scoring. The Wil-
son defence, having conceded only 4
goals all season, largely held tight and
were strongly marshalled by centre-
backs Marco Aliprandi and Jamie Beal.
Wilson Keeper, and Man of the Match,
Andy Kearney kept his fine form go-
ing, denying Piccadilly through an ar-
ray of first-class saves, including a tip
over the bar and a sprawling save low
to his right.
Captained by Aziz Kamara and led
upfront by the flamboyant Diogo Ger-
aldes, Piccadilly were deserved final-
ists and played their part in making the
match such a tightly fought contest.
Tough challenges were flying in across
the park with one at 75 minutes leav-
ing Wilson Captain Dom Bradley with
a bloody nose after a highly contested
corner.  With the clock counting down
full-time arrived with no teams any
closer to getting their hands on the
coveted trophy.
With rousing team talks from both
sides, extra-time followed. The rolling
subs continued to provide bursts of en-
ergy and this kept the match running
at a frantic pace. In the earlier stages it
was Wilson who came closest to scor-
ing when a pull-back from the right by-
line was met by Giles Ostermeijer ten
yards out, however he placed the ball
just wide of the left post, with the goal
Dominic Bradley
Men’s Football (AET)
Inter-halls Football
Wilson House XI 1
Piccadilly Court XI 0
beckoning in front.
With penalties on the horizon, Wil-
son were the team pushing hardest
for the victory in the second ET pe-
riod. Their hard graft was rewarded
deep into extra time when a quick free
kick from the centre of the park split
the Piccadilly defence and was met by
onrushing centre midfielder Dom Bra-
dley, who with one touch nipped the
ball over the advancing keeper, for his
16th goal of the season. Peeling away in
celebration he was mobbed by the Wil-
son players and a 20-man plus pile on
ensued, with the crowd going ecstatic
on the sideline.  Wilson had robbed the
match at the death!
The final few minutes were played
out and spectacular scenes were seen
as Wilson realised the dream double
had been achieved. With the new East-
side Residence opening for the next
academic year, Piccadilly Court’s FC
fairytale ending was wrenched away
from them in the cruellest fashion.
On pitch Wilson House celebrations
were jubilant and partying continued
throughout the evening at The Mon-
key Puzzle Pub, Paddington, where
pints flowed freely long into the night.
It has been a fantastic year for Imperial
Lacrosse. The ladies upped their game
in the BUCS league winning all but one
of their matches only to lose the over-
all title to Brighton on goal difference.
However, their brilliant season saw
them the highest scoring second team
in the country and on to the BUCS
Cup. Several lacrosse workshops with
the England U19’s head coach later, the
ladies sailed through to the quarter fi-
nals but unfortunately Exeter scored in
extra time to narrowly take the win.
The men were pushed hard in their
first competitive season with a jam-
packed playing schedule and two dif-
ficult leagues. However, the boys took
this on the chest (in some cases, literal-
ly!) and improved immensely this sea-
son, finishing in respectable positions
in both competitions.
The mixed team have been unstop-
pable! Without a single loss in the
ULU league, the mixed team convinc-
ingly took the title. A further unbeaten
record in the ULU Challenge Cup,
they stormed through to the cup fi-
nal against UCL and finally won the
double!
Our annual tour to Oxford in No-
vember was a fantastic opportunity
for the club to bond and the newbies
were thoroughly tested not only by the
drinking but a tough match against the
Oxford University mixed team!
Lacrosse club flying high
after an impressive season
Elizabeth Keeling
In March we organised the Impe-
rial Cup mixed tournament for 16
teams from across the country. The
club managed to field two phenom-
enally talented teams, with Imperial
1’s getting through to the semis against
Brighton. Unfortunately, they were too
well rehearsed and narrowly beat us
into the finals. Kit supplier Hattersleys
provided a stall, we held a raffle and
ran a BBQ throughout the day, earning
the club much needed funds. All this
whilst enjoying the sun and playing
some excellent lacrosse!
Just one week later, the ladies and
mixed teams took part in the Nation-
al Tournament, playing against elite
teams including the England U19s la-
dies squad. It was tough competition
but a great weekend was had by all!
We can now confidently say that we
are the best Lacrosse club in the whole
of London, so a massive thank you
from me to all our members who have
been around and made this a truly un-
forgettable year!
Imperial rugby dominant in
2009 Middlesex sevens
Continued from back page
Imperial Hockey Club prepares for
tour of a lifetime
Amanda Cheung &
Arabella Walker
Imperial College Hockey Club has ar-
guably seen one of its most successful
seasons in recent years, with a record
membership of nearly 100 committed
students achieving some superb re-
sults both on and off the field. ICHC
Men’s 1st XI went through the season
with a better than 90% success rate in
the ULU Premier league and BUCS 2B
division, securing both titles and gain-
ing promotion to the Men’s 1A BUCS
league for 2009/2010 thanks to a tense
play-off victory in the final week of the
spring term.
The Ladies 1st XI has also had a stel-
lar season, reaching the finals of both
the ULU and BUCS cups under the
guidance of Captain Sarah Clayton,
who has developed a young squad into
an exciting outfit for future years. Con-
gratulations also go to the Men’s 2nd
XI who have secured the ULU league
division 2 title with a game to spare and
will play in the 1st division next season.
They narrowly missed out on silver-
ware in their BUCS league, finishing
second, as did the Men’s 3rd XI, who
enjoyed a resurgent season under the
captaincy of Andrew Bromfield. The
Ladies 2nd XI and Men’s 4’s have both
improved as the season progressed;
the latter recently enjoying a relaxing
weekend excursion to Italy!
Off the field, we have been very lucky
to secure the sponsorship of Merrill
Lynchthisyear.Theirgeneroussupport
has been crucial to securing the serv-
ices of a top class coach, new playing
kit and subsidising our annual fresher’s
tour and annual dinner and we are ex-
tremely grateful for their assistance. As
the most sociable mixed sports club
at Imperial, ICHC’s social events have
scaled new heights this season. Our
fresher’s tour to Brighton and the en-
tertaining Christmas dinner were just
two of the highlights from the autumn
term that also saw curry nights, pub
crawls and plenty of dressing up at the
ACC bar nights. In the spring term,
our successful black tie annual dinner
was attended by over 100 people and
our yearly mixed tournament attracted
university teams from across London
and even a travelling outfit from the
West Country!
Finally, to top off a sensational hock-
ey season, ICHC are incredibly excited
to announce that the destination of the
summer tour 2009 will be none other
than the magnificent, vibrant and ex-
otic INDIA!!!
This summer, the best club at Impe-
rial will be spreading its awesomeness
further across the globe to conquer yet
another continent. We have touched
Africa and Europe; now it is time for
Asia. Over 40 keen adventurers, in-
cluding our very own felix editor, have
already signed up for this trip of a life-
time, one of the biggest groups ever
in the history of ICHC summer tours.
This builds on the success of tours of
Imperial College Hockey Club
Imperial College Hockey Club
IndiaTour 2009
Bar day-night
£3 for a wrist band then £1 a pint!
Fosters John Smiths
Blackthorn Snakebite
From midday in the Union!
Come for a quick one at lunch!
Come for the good weather!
Come for the whole day!
Come to celebrate the end of exams!
TODAY
!!!!!
The victorious Wilson House team celebrating with a few beers
The Lacrosse club on one of their many successful social nights
Imperial’s winning Middlesex 7’s team at Richmond Athletic’s ground
Finishes when the
8 kegs run dry!
the past, which have included desti-
nations such as Berlin, Cyprus and
Ghana.
This year’s immense voyage is set to
depart on 27th June with the first stop
being the capital, Delhi. The itinerary
includes excursions to Agra, home of
the Taj Mahal; a stay in the beautiful
northern city of Chandigarh, and a
major highlight of the tour – a wild-
life safari at the Corbett National Park!
Needless to say, there will be a lot of
culture (and heat!) to soak up on this
trip, but not without playing a few
games of hockey in between, after all,
this is a hockey tour and incidentally,
hockey is the national sport of India!!
Imagine ‘Slumdog Millionaire’ but
with the inevitable drunken exploits
and Chaz!!!
In preparation for the trip, an eager
volunteer was sent to the health centre
to enquire about which injections and
tablets we needed (besides lots of ibu-
profen!). The list is long but on learn-
ing that it was to be a mixed tour, the
nurse got a little bit over enthusiastic
with the Durex. This might be a little
superfluous to requirement as there
is a marvellous place called the Con-
dom Bar in Chandigarh which we will
no doubt conveniently stop over. The
Hindustan Times describes it as hav-
ing ‘Interiors decorated with real con-
doms, beer mugs in the condom shape,
staff dresses with condom prints... a bar
cum discotheque...... like none other in
India.’ If you did not notice the obvious
hilarious pun there then you have not
been revising as long as I have!
The second half of the tour will take
the group on a train journey through
the heart of India all the way to Kolka-
ta, where we will be collaborating with
Future Hope, a charity that provides
shelter, education, medical aid and
opportunity to children and orphans
suffering from extreme poverty. To-
day, there are six Future Hope homes
in Kolkata and a school that provides
activities, sport and teaching pro-
grammes so there are going to be plen-
ty of things we can do to help them out
and support the children of the com-
munity, including coaching the chil-
dren and contributing with commu-
nity work. Another charitable aim of
our trip is to bring along some hockey
supplies (especially goalie kits which
are really expensive) to be donated to
some of the teams we play or train.
This two week tour to one of the
most remarkable places in the world
would not have been possible without
Merrill Lynch, the generous sponsor of
ICHC. To raise funds to support the
tour, the club is hosting a bar day at the
union on Friday, 8th May starting at
12pm. Everybody is welcome so make
sure you are there! Your support will be
greatly appreciated!
One thing is for certain – this year’s
hockey tour is promising to be one big
epic adventure!
Last summer’s touring hockey side to Germany
were dangerous.
The last pool game was against LSE,
proved more testing yet Imperial still
produced a 26-7 victory, which secured
their place in the final.
The final would be played against
Kings College Medicals. This same
team had secured promotion into
South Premiership B and earlier this
year surprised everyone by defeating
Imperial Medics in the UH Cup final,
a competition that the Medicals have
won for several years. The pace of the
game was the highest so far and Im-
perial were the first team to concede
points. The next few moments were
challenging, but after regaining com-
posure Imperial were able to secure
possession and run in the tries. Again
Tom Carroll and Joseph Brown scored
two a piece, with Nick Johnstone add-
ing to the tally to make the final score
35-7.
Having retained the title for another
year, Imperial proved once again how
great they were at sevens, with Captain
Joe Brown collecting the Silverware.
Let’s hope for the same next year!

