felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Continued on page 25
Imperial cricketers off to promising start
Imperial College Men’s Cricket 1st XI
got off to a winning start against Lon-
don Met University on Sunday and
came very close to making it 2 out of
2 against Sussex University at Hove,
but fell short by 2 wickets on Wednes-
day. Two contrasting teams were faced
over the matches and general consen-
sus was that Imperial should have got
more runs than the 289 scored against
London Met. The top scorer for IC was
our own El Presidente Ali Najefi who
got a very stylish 65 backed up by Big
Bad Zeeshan Malik with 39. In reply,
London Met never really looked like
getting the score because of losing
regular wickets - Viran Parmar rip-
ping through the top and middle order
with 6 wickets. The opposition didn’t
exactly play very fairly and because of
their slow over rate and the setting sun,
started to waste more time while bat-
ting to eventually try and come off for
bad light so that they could try and sal-
vage some points. A London Met bats-
man, who straight after middling a ball
to extra-cover proceeded to complain
to his mate/umpire that he couldn’t see
the ball. The players were soon off for
light but justice was done as IC were
awarded full points.
Sussex were the opposite end of the
spectrum, and even though we lost to
them, it was an honest, hard game of
cricket with both teams fighting and
scrapping for victory. They were such
good guys that our wicket-keeper for
the day Andy Payne - who did a stel-
lar job behind the stumps despite not
being a regular keeper - wound up get-
ting a Sussex batsman’s phone number.
IC batted first again, and got a decent
start with Matt Tarr top-scoring with
33. People got starts but never really
kicked on until Daniel Johnpillai and
Rajiv Shah dug in for a partnership at
the death, both of whom were execut-
ing the now legendary ICLC (Impe-
rial College Late Cut) to perfection.
Imperial bowled well, and fought for
everything, with Ankit Patel getting
3 wickets and Ahsaan Ismail showing
some real fire getting 4 wickets on his
first match on English soil. Eventually
however, the 163 scored by Imperial
turned out to not be enough as Sussex
got it with 2 wickets to spare and about
6 overs remaining.
A note of warning that Imperial’s
fieldinghasnotquitebeenuptoscratch
as there have been several chances that
should have been taken in the first 2
games. Mr Jacob Chacko, standing at
slip due to a hamstring injury, wound
up letting a ball hit his foot after a bats-
man had edged it. He then proceeded
to say something along the lines of
“why didn’t I just put my hand there?”
and “if I put my hand there I would
have caught that”. Mr Chacko then had
to call on a substitute fielder because
he couldn’t field in the deep, put on an
olympic sprint to the boundary so that
Pete Swallow could come on and then
helped himself to some biscuits on the
boundary - job well done Jacob.
As for the freshers playing this year,
it’s fantastic to see people stepping up
and making the old-guard fight for
places. People like Imran Zahid, Ah-
saan Ismail, Matthew Tarr and Navin
Surtani have trained hard over the
winter and are making good contribu-
tions to 1st XI Cricket.
On a lighter note, rumours around
the club are that Matt Tarr has swine
flu. If you know the man, find out if
this is true or not - but take caution.
The worst sledge of the week goes to
Ankit Patel. After a batsman was out
LBW, Ankit is quoted “That was more
plumb than the fruit from the tree”.
Fines are common in the cricket club
and leading by example is Ali Najefi
who stalled the minibus in Hove and
blocked traffic while doing a 3-point
turn at Hove cemetery.
Navin Surtani
Imperial
rugby win
Middlesex
sevens
James Pettit
Imperial College once again proved
that they are probably the best sevens
team in the world. Having won the
Middlesex Sevens tournament in 2008,
I.C.U.R.F.C. set out to defend their ti-
tle. Eleven rugby players, one frog, the
Chalkes, the Browns, Chilli, two Tim
Burr’s and a Brime time with Grand
Children, arrived at Richmond to be-
gin the long day.
The first game was played against
old rivals Brunel, formally a well recog-
nised rugby college but as of late have
had a poor run of form and were look-
ing for a return to greatness. It was not
long, however, until the incredible Im-
perial defence secured a turn over that
resulted in possession for the majority
of the match. This resulted in tries from
Joesph Brown, two from Tom Carroll
and two from Freddie Chalke giving a
final score of 29-12 to Imperial.
The second fixture for the Impe-
rial boys was against Suffolk Univer-
sity. Having brought such a large squad
with them, Imperial were able to use
the full depth of talent that they had at
their disposal. What happened in that
match can only be described as sheer
dominance with the Imperial players
crossing the try line a total of eight
times. Two each from Max Joachim
and Tom Carroll, and one each from
Hugh Jarman, Coalan Cotter and Louie
Barnett saw a final score of 50-0 in only
14 minutes of rugby. It was clear we
Imperial’s cricketers on fine form at their match against London MET

