news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
felix
News
4 felix Friday 8 May 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
Friday 8 May 2009
The world beyond
college walls
Edited by Hassan Joudi & Raphael Houdmont
The owner of Panama’s largest supermarket chain, Ricardo Martinelli,
has been elected as the country’s new president.
With his business acumen and, the 57-year old chairman of the board of
the Súper 99 supermarket, won a landslide 60% of the vote.
The Central American state is known mainly for the Panama Canal, a man-
made canal built in 1914 which is an artery for global sea trade, and Mar-
tinelli inherits the Presidential office in the middle of the canal’s expansion.
After a referendum in 2006, in which Panamanians approved building a third
set of locks, about $5bn (£3.3bn) worth of contracts is about to be awarded to
companies to begin construction.
The global economic crisis has decreased the amount of container traffic
through the canal, but $2bn
(£1.3bn) is still collected from
the canal in tax revenues every
year, making it a central part
of the national economy.
Martinelli also said his
government will make the fi-
nalisation of a bilateral trade
agreement with the US – Pan-
ama’s biggest trade partner – a
priority.
Panama
As the swine flu is slowly spreading across the globe, some countries
have decided to take precautionary measures.
Some of them however, are aggressively taking things beyond official scien-
tific advice, causing disputes between communities, and between nations.
In the past week, the Chinese government has quarantined dozens of
Mexican citizens, forcing them to stay confined within their hotels, despite
not showing any symptoms of the flu. The government has banned all pork
imports from Mexico, the US, and now Canada. Mexican and Canadian au-
thorities have criticized the decisions, and the World Health Organisation
(WHO) has asked China to justify its discriminatory measures.
Meanwhile, Egyptian police have
clashed with local pig farmers at-
tempting to resist the government-
ordered cull of the country’s 300,000
pigs. The pigs belong, and are mostly
consumed by Egypt’s Coptic Chris-
tian minority, who say the cull has
reignited religious tension in the pre-
dominantly Muslim country. No case
of swine flu has yet been reported in
Egypt.
China and Egypt
Politics in Nigeria, Africa’s largest democracy, are notoriously
complicated.
The general elections in 2007 were widely regarded as the most flawed in
the nation’s history. On the road to the next general elections in 2011, the re-
cent regional elections in the south-western Ekiti State have caused tensions
to flare amidst allegations of vote rigging. The poll was marred by the most
flagrant outbreaks of political thuggery and irregularities seen since 2007.
Frequent power shortages and a high crime rate are Nigerian trademarks,
and the country is rife with corruption and fraud. All this is scaring busi-
nesses from investing, even though Nigeria has 150 million people and is
seen as an emerging market. To reverse this perception, the new minister
of information, Dora Akunyili,
has launched a rebranding cam-
paign, with the slogan ‘Nigeria:
Good People, Great Nation’, but
without tackling the root causes
of Nigeria’s problems, a mere
facelift is unlikely to attract
investors.
Nigeria
We are looking for HAYFEVER
sufferers and NORMAL
VOLUNTEERS to help with
allergy research
If you are interested in taking part in research to
help us understand the causes of nasal allergies
and develop new forms of treatment, and if
you are between 18 and 55 years old please
contact us for more information:
Telephone 0787 285 0275
or email your contact details to
a.goldstone@imperial.ac.uk
Department of Allergy
Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS Trust
and NHLI Ethics Commitees
Fulham Road, London SW3 6HP
The research has been approved by the Brompton Harefield & NHLI Research Ethics Committee
Vodafone scholarships for
Imperial engineers
Undergraduates in the Faculty of Engi-
neering are benefiting from a new and
prestigious scholarship scheme thanks
to a generous donation from The Vo-
dafone Group Foundation.
Individual engineering departments
have awarded prestigious Vodafone
Group Foundation Technology Schol-
arships to two undergraduates, one
from the UK and one from overseas,
on the basis of their outstanding aca-
demic merit.
The scholars are currently in their
first year at Imperial and, thanks to the
scholarship scheme, both their tuition
fees and living costs will be funded for
the entirety of their undergraduate
studies.
The students are Chee Yan Shek,
studying Mathematics and Computer
Science, and Ms Yanyan Jiang, study-
ing Biomedical Engineering.
“The scholarship has taken away a
lot of the worry about debt whilst I’m
studying, which has enabled me to
focus more freely on other aspects of
my course and student life in general,”
comments Chee Yan Shek.
“Life at Imperial is more demand-
ing than I had initially anticipated,” she
continues. “It took me quite a while to
settle into the new environment and
at times, trying to balance work with
play was a challenge. If I hadn’t been
awarded the scholarship it would have
been much more difficult.”
Working in conjunction with the
College’s EnVision initiative, the schol-
arships are not only aimed at reward-
ing excellence, but also at levelling the
playing field for engineering study at
Imperial by enabling the most talented
undergraduates to attend the College
regardless of means.
EnVision seeks to ensure that every
engineering student at Imperial Col-
lege is offered the best possible edu-
cation. It aims to guarantee that each
Imperial engineering graduate will be
armed with the knowledge, skills and
aptitude required to become world
class leaders in every sphere of the
sector.
“Imperial College has an important
obligation to encourage outstanding
students to excel in its academic en-
vironment. An excellent way of doing
this is by encouraging the brightest
students to study engineering here and
rewarding their talent, and schemes
such as the Vodafone Group Founda-
tion Technology Scholarships help
us to do just that,” explains Professor
Stephen Richardson, Principal of the
Faculty of Engineering.
Imperial College and the Vodafone
Group Foundation share a common
ambition to contribute to the global
engineering talent pool and to stimu-
late innovation in the sector. Through
the Vodafone Group Foundation Tech-
nology Scholarships, Vodafone is mak-
ing a real and tangible contribution
towards these goals which will ulti-
mately benefit the engineering sector
as a whole.
“We are delighted to work with Im-
perial College on this fantastic initia-
tive,” says Andrew Dunnet, Director of
The Vodafone Group Foundation.
“Vodafone is committed to investing
in the cultivation of the next genera-
tion of engineers and maximising the
future scientific potential of the UK. It
is imperative that institutions such as
Imperial College continue to attract
and reward talented students into en-
gineering, and the Vodafone Group
Foundation Scholarships are a great
way of doing just that.”
Rector criticises
government funding policy
at Postgraduate ceremonies
The College saw around 1,600 students
graduating with higher degrees in sci-
ence, engineering, medicine and busi-
ness on Wednesday at the Postgraduate
Awards Ceremony. Honorary degrees
were also given to philanthropists Jer-
emy and Hannelore Grantham, whose
Grantham Foundation for the Protec-
tion of the Environment has funded
research institutes on climate change
at Imperial as well as at LSE over the
past few years.
Two fellowships were also awarded
to members of staff who have contrib-
uted greatly to the life of the College.
The first of these is Professor Tom Kib-
ble who has been at Imperial for over
50 years and was Head of Department
of Physics from 1983-1991. The second
fellowship was given to Sir Leszek Bo-
rysiewicz, now Chief Executive of the
Medical Research Council and former-
ly Principal of the Faculty of Medicine
and then Deputy Rector at Imperial.
Graduation ceremonies at Imperial
have been a traditional time for Rectors
to make their feelings clear on a range
of matters, most notably the quality of
the students that we produce and the
state of the science and technology sec-
tor in the UK. This was no exception.
Sir Roy Anderson told the graduates
that “I find it inspiring to see this Hall
filled with people who have chosen to
invest their time, effort and finances in
science, technology, and business, who
have excelled as a result.”
“I strongly believe that your invest-
ment is one that will bring significant
reward. The benefits are long-term
and far-reaching for individuals and
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
for nations.”
His views, however, on the govern-
ment’s spending policy was not as flat-
tering with Sir Roy making similarities
with the US and their input into the
science, research and development
sectors. Sir Roy told the 1,600 or so
postgraduates that “in March this year,
President Barack Obama announced
that he would invest over $21 billion
in US science as part of his economic
stimulus package. He also wants his
country to spend 3% of GDP on re-
search and development.”
“I hope that the UK government will
be inspired by his example and also
make substantial investments in the
science and technology base of this
country. The future of our country and
our world depends on scientific inno-
vation and invention.”
This is not the first time that Rec-
tor has criticised the lack of support
from the UK government in support-
ing the science community in the UK,
however, his views on the matter have
been more and more open. Back in
February, Sir Roy hinted that there was
a problem with their spending in his
interview with felix, commenting “that
there are three or four areas of govern-
ment expenditure where a lot of money
could be saved”
The Rectors attacks on the govern-
ment are likely to continue in the near
future as graduates are finding it in-
creasingly hard to find jobs in the cur-
rent economic climate.
And Finally: Paxman to donate his brain to
the Imperial brain bank
Imperial College will be the holder of
another great mind, but in an entirely
different way.
BBC broadcaster Jeremy Paxman is
to donate his brain to Imperial-based
Brain Bank, once he has died. His brain
is to go towards finding a cure for Par-
kinson’s Disease, which affects 120,000
people in the UK.
Imperialhasthelargest‘brainbank’in
the world, situated on Imperial’s Ham-
mersmith medical campus, and holds
296 samples. The University Challenge
host has been keen to be added to the
donor list. His bold promise is to also
encourage others in donating their
brains for medical research.
“There’s currently no cure for Par-
kinson’s, which affects 120,000 people.
If you register to donate your brain,
you can help to find a cure.” The Par-
kinson’s Disease Society hopes to have
1,000 more confirmed brain donors
signed up by the end of this year.
“Hard to imagine anyone might want
your old brain, isn’t it? But it’s not as if
you’ll be needing it yourself,” quipped
Paxman, who does not suffer from Par-
kinson’s Disease himself. Healthy brain
tissue is also needed for comparative
studies, and the importance of this is
Dan Wan
Editor-in-Prowling
Coming soon to a university near you, Jeremy Paxman’s brain
photo by tom roberts
highlighted by the fact both actress
Jane Asher and TV presenter John Sta-
pleton have also pledged their brains to
The Parkinson’s Disease Society Brain
Bank.
“We need a greater awareness of the
benefits of brain donation so that more
people come forward to register with
us. Scientific research on brains both
with and without Parkinson’s is essen-
tial,” urged Asher, who is also the Par-
kinson’s Disease Society President.
They say great minds think alike, and
if you’d like to follow Paxman’s suit and
donate your brain, even after frying it
by completing a degree at Imperial,
visit http://www.parkinsons.org.uk.
!!"#"!$%&$
The Imperial College science maga
Sir Roy Anderson at a recent graduation ceremony
“The Scented Book”
an
I, science Production
in association with felix
Directed by Mico Tatalovic,
Starring: butter popcorn, harnessing Mother Nature’s power,
Larnack and Darwin, London’s wild parrots and Biofuels
at stands everywhere 15.05.09
I, science

