science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 8 May 2009
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mićo Tatalović
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 8 May 2009 felix
Science
It’s a cold, damp morning, 2088, and
the sun’s rays barely penetrate the thick
cloud above. But today the world feels
like a better place. The centenary re-
port of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change has confirmed what
few had dared hope – the scientific
consensus is that the earth’s tempera-
ture has finally peaked. This seems like
a good moment to look back and re-
flect on how we got here.
Just three-quarters of a century ago
it seemed we were on the brink of ca-
tastrophe. While some were in denial,
a sense of powerlessness in a complex,
globalised world led others to turn
their backs on rational solutions to our
mounting problems. They placed their
faith in false prophets. Self-proclaimed
‘experts’, often-charismatic celebrities,
who offered solutions based not on
evidence, but on anecdote and whimsy.
Paradoxically this was a golden age for
science, but it was a dark age for our
culture.
Perhaps it’s hard to appreciate from
today’s enlightened perspective just
how profound a change has occurred.
So let me describe the four key pillars
on which I believe this renaissance in
public attitudes to science was built.
The primary catalyst for change was
education. While educators continued
to teach the methods and facts of sci-
ence as they always had, they began
to do something else - they began to
inspire children. In primary school,
pupils were introduced to the won-
ders of the natural world, and - with
the aid of new teaching technologies
like HoloSim - to the amazing story
of how scientists had begun to reveal
the beautiful structures that lie behind
our seemingly chaotic everyday ex-
perience. In secondary school, pupils
learned how the scientific method was
their bastion against those who would
seek, often inadvertently, to under-
mine their own health, and that of the
world in which they lived. They gained
a sense of pride in knowing how not to
be hoodwinked. To be ignorant of sci-
ence was to be diminished as a person.
75 years ago in politics, success
was measured in terms of short-term
popularity. The political class knew
science and technology were funda-
mental to economic prosperity, but the
importance of the scientific method
to the process of political decision-
making had not yet been grasped.
After a decade of economic austerity
and mounting environmental chaos,
the public began to realise that what
mattered was finding evidence-based
solutions to the huge problems we
faced. The people demanded their
politicians gather evidence, and act on
What can be done to ensure an informed and balanced public and
political debate of Science and Technology? Judge: Dr. Martyn Sené,
winner
Matt Silver
2009 Science Challenge Winner
Scientists clash on the subject of hu-
man evolution because evolution
means something slightly different to
each of them. For Prof Steve Jones,
who considers evolution from a gene
survival standpoint, the weakening of
natural selective forces due to medical
advances and modern technology sug-
gests our species is reaching an evolu-
tionary stagnation point. But although
our genetic material is almost identi-
cal to primates, those who take the
broader view that evolution is simply
change over time, believe that genome
maps point to an evolution explosion.
Perhaps in the 150 years since Dar-
win’s revolutionary observations, the
term evolution has itself evolved, and
the meaning of its descendent, clevolu-
tion, will help us answer whether and
how Homo sapiens will do the same.
This essay explores two analogies that
unearth the possibilities.
Coiled Laser Evolution
What does evolution have in com-
Will Homo Sapiens continue to evolve? If so, how?
Judge: Prof. Armand Leroi, Imperial College
runner-up
Sang Nguyen
2009 Runner-up
An unseasonal downpour chases a
group of television executives as they
run from their 4x4 into the centrally-
heated airport. They reach the lounge,
order cappuccinos, and plug in their
laptops. To raucous agreement, one of
them exclaims that he’s sick of reading
programme proposals about ‘ﬂipping
climate change’. He adds that if he but
sees the word ‘environment’ in the sub-
ject title of an email, he immediately
hits the ‘delete’ button.
Their ﬂight is called. Packing away
their laptops, they head for the gates.
Witnessing this scene, I felt it
summed up a modern dilemma: our
voracious hunger for progress has led
to a depletion of the energy sources on
which much of that progress depends.
In November 2008 the annual report
of the International Energy Agency
predicted an increase in global energy
demand of 45% by 2030. At the same
time, supplies are becoming increas-
ingly uncertain.
Even without such concerns, the wis-
dom of our dependency on fossil fuels
is questionable. Their combustion re-
leases greenhouse gases, causing global
warming which could be irreversible.
Those pesky ‘unseasonal downpours’
may only be the beginning.
Yet our TV executives are unmoved.
While the lights are still on in the Big
Brother house, it’s business as usual.
Given this collective lethargy, it is
perhaps unsurprising so many are
unaware there is a type of energy that
could break the deadlock. That energy
is hydrogen.
Hydrogen should need no introduc-
tion. After all, it is the most abundant
element in the universe. It is not freely
available: in order to be used it needs
to be extracted from other substances
such as water, fossil fuels or biomass.
Still, that list alone shows just how
plentiful it is.
But then what? In fact, it can be com-
busted like a conventional fuel. Then
there is the fuel cell.
A hydrogen fuel cell is an electro-
chemical energy conversion device
that turns hydrogen and oxygen into
water, producing electricity and heat
along the way. Water is the only waste
product.
A simple reaction, you might think -
and an emission-free one to boot.
Even to the most ill-informed TV
viewer, this must sound good. After
all, this fuel is NOT going to run out.
Furthermore, where other fuels are un-
evenly distributed around the world,
playing havoc with global security,
hydrogen, in its different compound
Hydrogen is key to tackling the world’s
rapidly increasing demand for energy.
Discuss. Judge: Duncan Macleod, Shell
runner-up
Rebecca Lockwood
2009 Runner-up
Science Challenge 2009: Results
The Science Challenge is an essay competition promoting science communication. This year the winners
received £16k in cash prizes and trips to Parliament, CERN, Shell labs and National Physical Laboratories.
Daniel Burrows presents some of the winning essays. All essays and references can be found at www.
sciencechallenge.org
it. Of course political disagreements
remained, as they always will, but po-
litical argument had become less about
rhetoric, more about a rational search
for answers.
At the turn of the century, the pub-
lic learned about cutting-edge science
primarily through the mass media.
With a few exceptions, the reporting
of science news was woeful. Journal-
ists adept at teasing fact from fiction
in the difficult terrain of war reporting
for example, saw no need to draw the
distinction between scientific consen-
sus and maverick opinion in the realm
of science. Mass print and broadcast
media competed with simplistic, sen-
sationalist headlines produced by non-
specialist journalists, often with the
connivance of commercial interests, or
even university PR departments hun-
gry for coverage. The internet changed
everything. A growing band of web-
based science communicators began
to satisfy a voracious demand for ac-
curate science news, presented with
originality and ﬂair. Most importantly
they brought together communities of
people who could share, discuss and
challenge scientiﬁc information in the
public domain. Of course one key ele-
ment in this new community were the
scientists themselves...
Science always had its great com-
municators - men and women who
relished the opportunity to explain
their work to the public. They were
however a tiny minority. As science
embraced its role of tackling the key
technological and intellectual chal-
lenges of our age, attracting an ever-
increasing proportion of public funds,
scientists were forced to acknowledge
their public role. A privileged position
at the nexus of scientiﬁc research and
public opinion meant that public ac-
countability was a key element in every
scientist’s job description. Of course
not all researchers could be great com-
municators, but an element of interac-
tion with the public, whether through
web communities, face to face work in
schools, or work within the media or
politics became mandatory. It was only
then that science could regain its posi-
tion, lost throughout much of the 20th
century, at the heart of popular and in-
tellectual culture.
We will never inhabit a trouble-free
world. Within a decade of ﬁnding the
universal cure for cancer new challeng-
es emerged - the devastating epidemic
of viral replicators from lunar mining
colonies and the dreadful consequenc-
es of back street cloning to name but
two. While problems remain, we can
take comfort from the fact that we will
face the challenges of the 22nd century
with all the tools of human ingenuity at
our disposal.
mon with a laser? Evolution is often
regarded as a continuous progression
towards increasing complexity, but it
does not always lead to more complex
organisms. Veterans of evolution, such
as bacteria, demonstrate that nature
also enjoys the simple life. Similarly, a
laser stays focused along its path, and
although it appears as a steady stream,
discrete photons emitted at random
intervals mimic the unpredictable oc-
currence of genetic mutations. Though
rather than viewing evolution as a one-
dimensional beam, a better three-di-
mensional picture is a coiled laser (see
above). Even if the laser coil collapses
into a circle, the beam continues. In
other words, if natural selection be-
comes obsolete, the other dimensions:
genetic drift and gene ﬂow, take on
greater importance as driving mecha-
nisms of evolution.
What does the coiled laser analogy
reveal about our evolution? By mas-
tering total internal reﬂection, we use
fibre optics to guide lasers around ob-
stacles, enabling the vast global com-
munication networks we now take for
forms, is everywhere.
There’s more. Hydrogen offers great
potential for energy storage. In fact, it is
the perfect bed-fellow for the discern-
ing renewable. Not much wind today?
No worries! Bit cloudy? Not a problem!
In the hydrogen-economy, the power
generated when the weather condi-
tions were right can be used to create
hydrogen. Thus, on a still, sunless day,
the stored hydrogen is ready and wait-
ing to step in and ﬁll the gap.
So - a totally clean, carbon-free route
to sustainable energy consumption ex-
ists? Why aren’t our television screens
bombarding us with this news?
If only it were that simple. For a start,
we know hydrogen cannot be used
without being produced ﬁrst. This re-
quires other energy sources. In current
hydrogen production, these tend to be
fossil fuels, as they are the least expen-
sive. Consequently, carbon dioxide is
emitted, contributing to global warm-
ing. Unfortunately, as with most of our
knottiest problems, the politics is as
important as the science. Governments
are unwilling to invest in infrastructure
for technology until they know it has a
long-term future. Likewise, businesses
don’t want to fund technology until the
infrastructure is in place.
It’s a ‘Catch-22’ situation that acts
as a powerful brake - not only on the
networks needed to make hydrogen
ubiquitous, but also on the research
and development required to solve
the scientific problems that do remain.
Hydrogen is so light, for example, that
it needs to be compressed enormously
or liquidfied before being transported
in useful amounts. Challenging - but
not insurmountable, given sufficient
finance.
Luckily, there are glimmers of hope.
A team of scientists recently placed 27
hydrogen- powered buses in 9 Euro-
pean cities, and monitored them for 5
years. The project ended in 2006. Re-
sult? Collectively, the buses traveled
approximately 258,000km. Infrastruc-
ture problems were ironed out - and
reliability compared favourably to con-
ventional buses.
This was a discreet study that ar-
guably didn’t receive the publicity it
deserved. Maybe that’s the real mes-
sage. Those TV executives - and their
viewers - may not care what powers
their laptops - but they would be dev-
astated if nothing did. So, they need
to be made to care. The superstitious
traveler suspects it is only passengers’
collective belief that keeps his plane in
the air. So with the hydrogen economy.
Until it has the weight of public opin-
ion behind it, it is going nowhere. We
need to believe - and then, just maybe,
this bird will fly.
granted. Likewise, our evolutionary
path meanders to overcome challeng-
es, and we can direct it by understand-
ing our genome. Now consider a laser
passing through double slits, which
symbolises the simultaneous confron-
tation of two scenarios: climate led
evolution whereby humans are forced
to adapt signiﬁcantly to cope with un-
predictable environmental variations;
and customisable lifespan evolution
driven by our ability to manipulate
the genes responsible for ageing. Ulti-
mately, the laser encounters a distant
surface and the resultant interference
fringe pattern signiﬁes the spread-
ing of the human population. Corre-
spondingly, colony leaping evolution
emerges, as we move from planet to
planet to satisfy our spiralling resource
requirements. The necessary attribute
for a laser to arrive at this destination is
coherence. Hence, for humans to sur-
vive the twisting tale of clevolution, we
will need global co-operation, as well
as clever solutions.
Card Lattice Evolution
Alternatively, the intricacies of clevo-
lution may be explained by a game; a
game of both choice and chance. This
model suggests that nature plays cards,
and we are the cards used to construct a
triangular tower. The suits correspond
to the four bases in DNA, while the
many permutations of card combina-
tions embody our genome. Just as our
evolution depends on reproduction via
male and female couples, pairs of cards
leaning against each other establish the
building blocks of the lattice. The clé
to clévolution is diversity, represented
by each horizontal bridging card that
forms a foundation for further evo-
lution. Mutation is the genetic joker
card. The height of the card tower (the
extent of human evolution) is deter-
mined by the number of cards at the
base. Indeed, scientists believe that our
evolution was recently accelerated by
exponential population growth.
What does the card lattice anal-
ogy mean for humanity? If our popula-
tion stabilizes, we would reach a limit
for carbon life-based evolution. This
population plateau may occur if our
efforts to delay climate led evolution
involve restrictions to energy and food
supplies. During this period of con-
sumption limited evolution, we will
reduce personal travel and increas-
ingly communicate using information
technology.
This cyber-linked evolution can be
visulised as an extra ‘base pair’ of cards
ascending aside the original tower, il-
lustrating how silicon-based machines
will evolve alongside Homo sapiens.
Instead of male and female, the co-
dependent card pairs are now process-
ing speed and memory capacity. These
will develop at such a rate that artificial
intelligence is expected to overtake the
brain power of humans by about 2050.
Homo sapiens will finally have a threat
other than ourselves. However, rather
than be replaced by our competitors,
we will undergo coalescing life-form
evolution, as man and machine unite.
In this outlook, it is variation not of the
body but of the mind that matters. The
question is: will Homo sapiens have the
intellectual diversity to evolve further?
As long as scientists continue to clash,
the answer is ‘yes’.
This editors impression of what human clones could look like.
I, science
Issue 12 • Summer 2009 - OUT NEXT WEEK!
Scratch & Sniff front cover!!!
Focus: green
energy
ALSO: Proust Phenomenon, Solar
Cars & London’s Wild Parrots

