10 felix Friday 8 May 2009
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
I was surprised when my office mate
showed me a scientific paper signed
by 3099 co-authors. To run my finger
down the list of names was like brows-
ing the index page of a world atlas.
From Armenia to Uzbekistan, almost
every country I could remember was
listed there. This recent publication is
a newborn from what promises to be a
very fruitful parent: the Large Hadron
Collider (LHC) at the European Organ-
isation for Nuclear Research (CERN),
simply the largest particle accelerator
ever built.
Its inauguration was followed by a
big stir in the popular media. Some im-
agined that the LHC would cause the
end of the world, supposedly draining
all matter and energy into a black-hole
centred in Geneva; while for others it
promised to reveal the very beginnings
oftheuniverse,disclosing the password
for the sacred source of existence. Sud-
denly humans had built by their own
hands the key to unlock the Genesis
or trigger the Apocalypse. However,
in the real world between the two ex-
tremes of history, outside tabloids and
novels, we ﬁnd a determined group of
scientists very keen to lead us on an-
other step towards understanding the
fabric of the universe.
Obviously the LHC was established
with a clear scientific agenda: experi-
mental and theoretical physicists join-
What might we learn from the Large Hadron
Collider project?
Judge: Prof. Tejinder Virdee, CERN
Gustavo Assi
2009 Runner-up
ing forces to validate models in order
to expand our comprehension of par-
ticle physics. More than one hundred
nations spent precious resources to
build “probably the biggest and most
complex scientific enterprise ever un-
dertaken by humanity”, designed to
find the most fundamental building
block we can conceive in our minds
and make sense of in our theories. Like
a snow leopard being photographed
in the wild, a multitude of tiny parti-
cles that we have never seen - but are
quite sure they exist - are posing to be
framed by the talented and meticulous
crew at CERN.
Together with these scientists, I be-
lieve the LHC will bring a new wave of
scientific knowledge about the natu-
ral world never experienced before.
Eventually, as a consequence, we might
make sense of another small fraction of
a second after the Big Bang or simply
produce a fast grid of supercomputers;
we might indulge ourselves in eleven
dimensions or perhaps even ﬁnd the
famous missing boson. But even if the
LHC does not produce the expected
ﬁnal answers to our current theories,
the endeavour will still have fulfilled
another goal: to help formulate better
questions in our infinite journey of un-
derstanding the natural world.
In addition to all the scientific break-
throughs that should appear sooner
or later, we are already harvesting sig-
nificant lessons from the LHC project.
We learn that there is no limit to our
runner-up
understanding of the physical world.
“The deeper we seek, the more is our
wonder excited”. This Hadron col-
lider is another step towards what we
believe to be elementary, until we dis-
cover that there still is something more
fundamental behind it. In this world
of wonderful questing for knowledge
“there is not one blade of grass; there is
no colour” - and there is no elementary
particle - “that is not intended to make
us rejoice”.
But we also learn that the most ef-
ficient (and probably most enjoyable)
way to pursue this satisfying journey
of discovery is by means of true coop-
eration. Whether or not it leads to the
ultimate Uniﬁed Theory, the LHC has
already proved itself a major unifying
endeavour, helping us to taste scientific
unity in a context of astonishing social
diversity. That thousand-author paper
is one of the first fruits of a venture
that gives birth to a new era of peace-
ful cooperation in science. Those first
23 pages, listing authors from the 177
institutions involved, are as impressive
as the content on the remaining 293
pages. We celebrate scientific collabo-
ration at a level never seen before.
In summary, there is another side of
the LHC that goes beyond matter and
energy. This multicultural enterprise is
already shining a beam out of the ma-
terial world into the realm of thoughts
and ideas. From physics to metaphys-
ics, there is much more involved in this
Hadron collider than the clash of tiny
wild particles. Thousands of scientists
with hundreds of different worldviews
are faced with questions about our own
nature even before one single particle
has been released.
In the midst of this diverse universe
of intangible particles we are eager to
combine an ordered cosmos with an
inquisitive human mind gifted with
comprehension.
How wonderful it is that we are do-
ing all this together. Let the family be
fruitful!
Hydrogen is the simplest and most
abundant element in the universe.
It can be produced from a variety of
sources and has great potential as an
energy carrier. As a result it will be key
in tackling the world’s increasing de-
mand for energy.
Currently the development of hy-
drogen has been mainly restricted to
the car manufacturing sector in order
to find a replacement for the internal
combustion engine. Fuel cells have
been developed, which produce elec-
tricity to provide power from the re-
action of hydrogen and oxygen in the
presence of an electrolyte. No waste
product other than water is produced.
When hydrogen fuel cells are used,
they have several advantages: they
are mechanically and hydraulically
very simple, they are quiet, cheap to
maintain, allow rapid acceleration and
are more compact than combustion
engines, giving the car manufacturer
more freedom especially in terms of
design. Finally they can even provide a
mobile source of energy at peak times
for domestic use, when the unit cost
is high or in remote areas, since they
run on cheap fuel and are more effi-
cient than combustion engines. Apart
from in vehicles, they can also be used
in aeroplanes, ships and trains. In
April 2008, Boeing announced that it
had successfully completed ﬂights of a
small propeller aeroplane powered by
hydrogen fuel cells.
Hydrogen could also revolutionise
the domestic renewable energy sector.
Houses with their own wind turbines
or solar cells could use excess electric-
ity to electrolyse water to produce hy-
drogen which can then be stored. As
opposed to lead-acid batteries, energy
can be stored for long periods of time
and performance does not degrade.
Electricity generated in the summer
can be stored for the winter for exam-
ple. When necessary, stored hydrogen
can be used to power fuel cells. At the
moment it is very expensive but with
greater development and demand in
the future, prices should fall rapidly. In
countries such as South Korea where
the main cooking and heating fuel is
methane, supplied in pressurised bot-
tles, it may be possible to replace these
with hydrogen.
At the moment there are a few tech-
nical constraints. Storage can be a
problem since hydrogen either has
to be cooled to a liquid or stored un-
der pressure. With both methods, the
techniques require further improve-
ment and they still remain relatively
expensive. One solution may be to
combine hydrogen with another ele-
ment, such as lithium to form lithium
hydride which can easily be stored. The
reaction can easily be reversed with a
platinum catalyst. Another problem
is the lack of a distribution network
which must be developed, similar to
the oil distribution system. This will
be expensive and will initially rely on
the public sector. A solution may be to
develop the system, first concentrating
on places where there will be a high
demand, such as military bases, police
stations, large factories and hospitals.
This would create a basic network of
pipelines which would encourage the
first development of commercial hy-
drogen stations.
The environmental implications of
an economy based on hydrogen and
electricity as energy carriers could po-
tentially be very positive, provided that
the electricity comes from renewable
resources or potentially from nuclear
fission or fusion. Until this is possible,
fossil fuels could still be used to pro-
duce electricity and hydrogen since
the carbon dioxide released could be
sequestered. In the long term it is vital
that all hydrogen is produced by split-
ting water using electricity since this
will ensure that it is sustainable, as this
is what the hydrogen returns to when
burnt.
In the coming years political will to
develop a “hydrogen economy” will
be vital to ensure continued research
and development in this area, to cre-
ate more efficient fuel cells and de-
sign effective distribution and storage
systems. Stimulus packages, subsidies
and grants will also be essential to en-
courage public uptake of the new tech-
nologies. I believe many countries will
ensure this happens since for them it
ensures energy independence from oil
producing countries, many of which
are politically sensitive. Also the in-
creasing international emphasis on the
need to combat climate change should
also en- courage political leaders to in-
vest in hydrogen technologies. So far
Hydrogen is key to tackling the world’s rapid ly increasing demand
for energy. Discuss.
winner
Matthias Schnellmann
Merchant Taylors’ School
2009 Schools Winner
The ATLAS detector at CERN, by Maximilien Brice (which we definitely did not nick from I,Science)
at least 17 countries have programmes
for the development of hydrogen, along
with 30 US states and several Canadian
provinces. With the election of Barack
Obama it is likely that over the next
few years significant development will
take place in the USA. The European
Commission also organised the Euro-
pean Technology Platform for Hydro-
gen at which over 300 representatives
from interest groups took part.
As with all new technologies it will
take several decades for hydrogen
to become a primary energy carrier.
Contrary to popular belief it will not
happen overnight, it will be a long
marathon.
A Hydrogen Mini
11
Friday 8 May 2009 felix
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
Over the early weeks of April, China
and Russia refused to recognize a
North Korean ballistic missile test as a
North Korean ballistic missile test, es-
sentially blocking a strong UN Security
Council Resolution that would have
subjected the hermit regime to harsh
sanctions.
For the two countries, China espe-
cially, this follows a long-running trend
of supporting, explicitly or implicitly,
regimes widely considered contro-
versial or even evil. From backing the
genocidal Khmer Rouge during the
1970s to arming and funding Robert
Mugabe’s ZANU-PF, the murderous
regime in the Sudan and the military
junta in Myanmar, China has shown a
willingness to brush aside petty con-
siderations such as respect for hu-
man life in its world-wide search for
friendship.
One explanation for this readiness
to seek friends unpopular in the play-
ground of international relations is the
Chinese perception of insecurity.
Following the collapse of the Soviet
bloc, Chinese communist leaders are
keenly aware of the threats to their
dominance, the most prominent be-
ing the potential consequences of an
increase in unemployment, damaging
social stability and potentially uniting
disparate antagonistic groups under
the banner of nationalism: patriotic
students, laid-off workers, discontent-
ed middle classes.
Given the scale of their financial re-
serves, the Chinese government feels
relatively well-placed to ride this year’s
financial turbulence out. After all, they
do not have to deal with public opin-
ion furious at the scale of debt required
by Keynesian economics that Western
governments are experiencing.
Of greater concern to their long-
term view is ‘energy security’. The Chi-
nese economy is heavily dependent
on oil purchased on the international
oil market, making them vulnerable
to price spikes. Their demand is ever-
growing with changing patterns of
consumer consumption. They con-
China and the international pariahs
Dom Maciver
sider themselves to be more vulnerable
to fluctuating prices because of their
inefficiency in comparison to other oil
importers.
It is this that propelled them towards
association with Sudan, towards chum-
miness with Hugo Chavez, towards
obstructing IMF attempts to improve
governance in Angola, towards a good
relationship with Iran (including sell-
ing them missile technology, according
to the US reports) and towards arming
the military junta in Myanmar against
discontented Buddhist monks.
However, it should be said that over
the course of this decade, China has
improved its behaviour in response
to international criticism. They have
pressured Sudan to accept peace-
keeping troops, they have tried to
force North Korea to the negotiating
table (although appear to be almost
as baffled as the West by Kim Jong Il’s
behaviour), and they have developed a
good reputation with governments in
developing nations worldwide during
the Bush years, advancing ‘soft power’
through generous and respectful di-
plomacy as America ruined its reputa-
tion in Iraq.
Why should this matter to us in the
UK? In part, our prominence in world
affairs relative to our tiny size relates to
both our long history as the first parlia-
mentary regime, and our unique posi-
tion in between Europe and America.
We see both sides of the coin, for ex-
ample having long supported Turkey’s
admission to the EU.
This was recently backed by Obama
as a means to open our doors to the
Muslim world, but has long been op-
posed by France and Germany, who
would lose their majority within the
voting apparatus of the EU. Any de-
crease in American standing is a de-
crease in our standing as well.
To believe the output of the news-
papers and politicians, our own soci-
ety is fundamentally broken: apathetic,
alienated and polarized. Twisted and
divided by institutional greed, we are
beset by police brutality, gang warfare,
immoral foreign policy and political
decay.
However, the incessant quest for sales
led by the Sun and the Daily Mail and
backed up by the broadsheets does not
so often notice the strengths of our so-
ciety from a comparative perspective.
The uproar created over Ian Tomlin-
son’s tragic death has been impressive
and deserved, and lies in stark contrast
to the silence in other societies when
protesters or dissidents are killed, in
their countries or in others’.
To cite extreme examples, last year in
Myanmar protesters were shot by the
army after their attempts to influence
the military regime and the monks who
led the protest were arrested, beaten
and given absurdly harsh sentences
(such as 65 to 100 years). The mouth-
piece for the Chinese government, the
People’s Daily, in turn condemned for-
eign media reports that had criticized
China for not exerting its influence on
the regime, saying they had been moti-
vated by “ulterior motives”.
This is not to argue that we should al-
ways self-righteously intervene in oth-
er nations’ affairs if we don’t like their
policies. China, despite its authoritar-
ian tendencies and occasionally drift
toward pariah statehood, has been the
great success story of the 21st century,
lifting millions out of poverty.
We have not been so perfect in our
choice of friends internationally: re-
placing Iran’s democratically elected
Prime Minister in 1953 with a friendly
authoritarian was one example of his-
torical hypocrisy among many. Per-
haps we have not put as much pressure
on Israel to dismantle settlements in
Palestinian lands as we should.
Nonetheless, errors of judgment not-
withstanding, we still have morality on
our side. The poor and displaced of the
world dream of coming here, and are
welcomed by the vast (sane) majority
of society if they manage to.
The fact that we can replace our gov-
ernment without bloodshed is testa-
ment to the strength of the system that
we have established, imperfect as it is.
As Churchill said, “perfect solutions of
our difficulties are not to be looked for
in an imperfect world.”
Interventions in Kosovo and Si-
erra Leone and the election of Barack
Obama stand as proof to authoritar-
ians that, as Obama put it, they are on
“the wrong side of history”.
Even in these dark times of eco-
nomic crisis, inadequate government
and traumatized society, we must not
forget that.
China’s President Hu Jintao greets US Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton whilst on a diplomatic visit
Protesters in Myanmar were beaten, arrested or shot for attempting to influence the military regime

