music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 8 May 2009
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair, James Houghton & Alex Ashford
13
Friday 8 May 2009 felix
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Mumford & Sons
give folk music
new meaning
The Maccabees triumphant with an
updated sound Kadhim Shubber got stood up by the band and wanted to
write a bad review, unfortunately the album is rather good
Profile:
Wall of Arms
The Maccabees
Fiction
HHHH
The Maccabees have never carried
much weight. After their 2007 set in
the Radio 1 tent at Reading Festival,
one Guardian reviewer commented
that it would be “hard to imagine them
as headliners”. This stemmed mostly
from the lightness of their offerings,
both in lyrical content and musical
dexterity. Singles like “Toothpaste Kiss-
es” were certainly catchy and pulled
at the heartstrings but they didn’t do
much else; if you were a 15 year-old
with a crush, their first album seemed
like a bruisingly sincere account of love
and its tribulations – if you were a real
person it was fun but ultimately point-
less and banal.
No more. With their new album Wall
of Arms, The Maccabees have firmly
thrown off the negative connotations
of the label ‘indie-pop’ and given peo-
ple who don’t wear Fred Perry polos
a reason to listen to them. They have
abandoned the ditzy sounds and mind-
less lyrics of Colour It In and have
struck a confident tone with thought-
ful lyrics and an inventive, challenging
and varied sound. In one fell-swoop
they’ve managed to tap into the trium-
phalism of The Killers, the sharpness
of the Arctic Monkeys and the lyrical
power of Oasis.
Wall of Arms explodes open with
their new single “Love You Better”. The
band’s distinctive guitar riff is ever
present but the moment front-man
Orlando Weeks opens his mouth it’s
obvious that his unique vocal style has
been used to its full potential. The lyr-
ics explore the darker side of love sug-
gesting their youthful innocence has
been damaged, broken by the experi-
ence of love. Orlando delivers these
with a striking melodious power. Songs
like “William Powers” are demonstra-
tive of the band’s greater maturity.
However, this album isn’t a great
departure from The Maccabees that
made their own music videos and sang
about burning girl’s dresses with their
cigarettes. They haven’t suddenly gone
all Editors on their fans. They have
still retained their singalong feel, a
fact made obvious on the stage, their
new material already has the feel of old
classics, with the audience screaming
back every lyric, anticipating the lows
and bracing themselves for the roaring
highs. They’ve lost none of their ener-
gy and this is clear on tracks like “Can
You Give It” and “Young Lions”.
By their own admission the band’s
first album was recorded in dribs and
drabs, more a collection of singles than
a record in its own right. Not this time
around, the band worked solidly on the
album in locations like Liverpool and
Paris and recorded it under the direc-
tion of producer Markus Dravs; who
also produced Arcade Fire’s Neon Bi-
ble. The effort has certainly paid off.
Thealbumhasbeenvariouslydescribed
as “flying off at unexpected angles” and
a “distinctly darker second long-player”
but in simple terms this album reveals
something new on each listen. Multi-
layered and compelling, it draws you in
and gives you cause to wonder whether
indie music is quite dead yet.
No longer lightweights, when The
Maccabees return to Reading this Au-
gust it’ll be the triumphant return of a
band that has truly arrived.
Emotionally powerful, this four-piece
group spin their tales with the magic of
an old, wizened story-teller. Their lyr-
ics have the strength to stand on their
own as pure poetry, but Marcus Mum-
ford’s delivery renders them sublime.
The label ‘folk’ may carry negative
connotations for people who’s musi-
cal curiosity involves checking who’s
Number One on a Sunday evening.
But if you bother to look, you’ll find
in Mumford & Sons a band that says
something more meaningful in a word
than Coldplay do in an entire album.
Their music isn’t plodding either. It
doesn’t simply serve as a backing for
some depressing romantic monologue,
it’s wild and heart thumping, moving
you physically as well as emotionally.
On tracks like “Roll Away Your
Stone”, their music lifts you up, slows
suddenly and then whisks you away in
a whirlwind of banjo, have a listen and
I dare you to resist your body’s desire
for a hoe-down (the waistcoat wearer’s
equivalent of a rave).
Supporting The Maccabees, the
band face an audience unaccustomed
to their sounds and roundly win them
over with the cheers growing louder
after each song.
They finish with “Dustbowl Dance”,
a song which you’ll have to see them
perform live to hear unfortunately (you
can find some poor quality videos on
YouTube), is pure proof of this. The
band are right to keep this track ex-
clusive to their performances as it is as
much a song as it is an experience. It’s
bleak, disturbing and oddly exhilarat-
ing as the band unleash the full fury of
their emotions upon their instruments,
completely destroying your expecta-
tions of the word ‘folk’.
Mumford & Sons aren’t hollow or
wooden, they’re loud and booming
and completely dominate the venue.
Ted Dwane’s double bass thunders into
your body. Marcus Mumford’s voice
grabs you by the heart. The band ex-
ude energy, putting their all into every
note. In the gaps between songs, they
seem to awake from a trance, cracking
jokes with the audience, before diving
back into their music; grabbing you
by the arm and taking you along with
them.
Kadhim Shubber
Bet you didn’t
know, biatch
The album art was created by
acclaimed artist Boo Ritson.
The band members were physi-
cally covered in paint and photo-
graphed to create the unique ef-
fect. The album is out now.
The Maccabees (from left) Rupert Jarvis, Orlando Weeks, Hugo White, Sam Doyle and Felix White
Band members:
Marcus Mumford (pictured),
Winston Marshall, Ben Lovett and
Ted Dwane.
Background
Marcus was writing songs and
“ripping off Shakespeare” in his
university bedroom in Edinburgh. He
was reunited with old friend Winston
Marshall when the latter’s bluegrass
act, Captain Kick & The Cowboy
Ramblers, performed in the city. They
first started performing together at
the Bosun’s Locker on London’s Kings
Road with another friend, Ben Lovett,
aka Ben Lovett Bloody Loves It on
keyboards – Marcus used to play
drums with BLBLI in a jazz band..
Marcus then met Ted Dwayne and
Mumford & Sons were born.
Sounds like:
Folk-pop, anti-folk, nu-folk, blah
blah. Whatever label you want to use
their talent is undeniable. Marcus
Mumford’s talented story-telling
combined with his passionate voice
tug at the heartstrings; with some
powerful bass and a little banjo
thrown in for good measure. Listen
to it alone, your heart will be moved;
listen with friends, your feet will.
London’s folk
revival
Along with artists like Laura
Marling, Noah & the Whale and
Johnny Flynn, Mumford & Sons have
spearheaded the recent explosion
of all things London-folk. By no
means a random coming together,
many of the bands are good friends
and have toured extensively with
each other (even appearing in each
other’s music videos). Surprisingly,
Mumford are as yet unsigned and
unfortunately not on Spotify. You can
find them on Myspace, I recommend
“Roll Away Your Stone”
source: The Guardian
Mumford & Sons
@ Electric Ballrooms
5th May
HHHH
Electric Six haven’t lost their spark
Greg Power
Electric Six. If you are reading this gig
review I’ll assume that like me you
rocked out to their hit singles “Danger!
High Voltage” and “Gay Bar” way back
in 2003. Though many naively believe
these Detroit rockers were simply one
hit wonders (or should I say two hit
wonders) the band managed to build a
steady fanbase with their kick-ass “Fire”
debut. Then came their second album
“Senor Smoke”, which turned out to be
a steaming pile of shit. But contrary
to popular belief, Electric Six did not
die there and then. After numerous
line-up changes, they released 3 more
albums, their latest being “Flashy”, a
sleazy disco-rock-metal-funk affair.
Though I’d never considered them a
great band, I couldn’t resist the tempta-
tion when I saw they were still around
and playing at the Camden Barfly. Af-
ter catching up on their latest releases
- especially the pure comedy genius of
thirdalbum“Switzerland”-myfriend&
I headed to Camden expecting a mildly
entertaining night. Instead, we walked
straight into one hell of a party.
The Barfly was full, and we ended
up grabbing the last two tickets avail-
able. Thankfully, we missed the open-
ing band Tragedy: a Metal Tribute to
the Beegees (trust me, not as cool as it
sounds). So we waited, beer in hand,
amongst a packed crowd of extreme-
ly diverse fans: from dread-wielding
punks, to a couple of sixty-year old hip-
pies, all the way to five massive dudes
wearing ridiculous hats. Obviously
Electric Six appeal to a wide range of
people, but everyone there had one
thing in common: they knew how to
party. Hard.
The lights went out and Electric Six
walked on stage, at which point eve-
rybody went crazy. The band kicked
the night off with the incredible “It’s
Showtime!”, and for a bunch of guys
too often labelled as a “joke band”,
they rocked the house. Heavy riffs,
one massively distorted bass, pound-
ing drum beats and falsetto screams
filled the room like love juice from
Funky Heaven. Of course everybody’s
eyes were on Dick Valentine that night,
donning a sexy purple cape and match-
ing crown. The awkward, over-the-top
campy frontman has always claimed
most of his lyrics are about “absolutely
nothing”, and regularly abuses of the
words “dance”, “drugs”, “girls”, “tonight”,
“louder”, “party”, and of course his fa-
vourite, timeless word “fire”. He was hi-
larious, cracking ridiculously bad jokes
all night, obviously drunk as hell.
They played through two hours of
songs taken from their entire back
catalogue, including fan-favourites
“Improper Dancing”, “Rock and Roll
Evacuation”, “Formula 409”, the fist-
pumping “Down at McDonnellzzz”,
and the ultimate party song “I Buy
The Drugs” (if you haven’t heard it,
do yourself a favour and check it out
on Youtube). And yes, as well as “High
Voltage”, they played “Gay Bar”. And
yes, it was buckwild. They even played
“Gay Bar Part II”, ironically a com-
pletely unrelated, but equally rocking
piece. Between songs, Dick Valentine’s
witty (read drunken) banter about how
badass his new drummer is, or how all
Brits must love Blur, received laughs
and applause from everybody in the
room.
This is a band that has been touring
non-stop since they first appeared on
the scene, and though their albums
have never been consistently great,
they have enough catchy songs and
experience on the road to play a tight,
heavy, fun and - most importantly -
danceable set.
Without a doubt it was some of the
most light-hearted entertainment I’ve
seen this side of Gogol Bordello. Eve-
rybody in that room had barrels of
fun, the “mosh pits” were basically just
strangers hugging each other and danc-
ing like it was the 80s all over again.
My highlight of the night was seeing a
hardcore punk asking one of the guys in
the novelty white Navy hats: “R.A.F.?”
quizzically. The guy smiled back with
It’s Eurotrash time again
Previously on Eurovision Song Con-
test… we saw the magnificent eyebrows
of Turkey’s singer; watched the barely
clothed ladies of Greece and Ukraine;
marveled at the Swedish singer’s ex-
cessively large forhead; got scared by
Rodolfo Chikilicuatre of Spain; and
were deeply saddened by the fact that
the UK had finally sent a Eurovision-
style song, and still did not earn a bet-
ter result.
Dima Bilan swept to victory for Rus-
sia with “Believe”, sung in English, ac-
cessorised with violinist Edvin Marton
and Olympic gold medallist figure
skater, Evgeni Plushenko. Marton was
very skilful. Plushenko was unbeliev-
ably stunning. Bilan wore a white en-
semble with a bare chest. He was a bit
dull.
Eurovision Song Contest is an annu-
al music extravaganza with tonnes of
glitter and short skirts, this year being
brought to us from Russia on Saturday
16th May. Countries that form part
of the European Broadcasting Union
are allowed to send entries, as long as
they do not offend any other partici-
pant – Georgia has already bowed out
of this year’s contest as their song was
not very friendly with the host coutry,
Russia. This year, 18 and 19 countries
compete in semifinals 1 and 2 respec-
tively; an even balance of televotes and
juryvotes will decide on 10 entries go-
ing forward to the grand finale. In the
big final, the twenty best scorers from
the semis will join the Big Four (UK,
France, Germany and Spain), as well
as the previous year’s winner, in a big
melody-fest where the winner will be
decided upon by the viewing public.
Setting the scene for this year’s ex-
travaganzaatOlympiyskiIndoorArena
in Moscow, 42 countries have entered
artists with songs belonging to a mul-
Jia-Ou Song titude of genres. Bookmakers around
the continent have had their say and
are collecting money with big fish-
ing nets as you read. We have trawled
through the top 10 and the top 10 from
the bottom to see if we could find some
good stuff. (rankings from bet365)
Norway [Alexander Rybak - “Fairy-
tale”] (Placed first) Young male singer
with wonderful violin skills would like
to meet upbeat eastern-style europop.
There is a certain swing to it, but I
found that it takes a few listenings for
it to catch on. 4/5
Greece [Sakis Rouvas - “This Is Our
Night”](Placed 2nd) Electronic dance
music meets tall-dark-handsomeness.
This number islightly overdependent
on Sakis Rouvas, and not enough on
the song itself, which in turn is quite a
plain piece of dance music. 2/5
Turkey [Hadise - “Düm Tek Tek”]
(Placed 3rd) This is a rhythmic song,
with evident Eastern influences.
Where the artist has great stage pres-
ence, the overall presentation could be
improved upon for the final. 3/5
Montenegro [Andrea Demirović -
“Just Get Out of My Life”] (Placed 4th)
Think eastern-european pop princess.
Catchy, but rather plain pop; the re-
frain is very repetitive. Hmm… make
that very catchy. 3/5
Azerbaijan [AySel and Arash - “Al-
ways”] (Placed 5th) Male and female
singer with not very exciting harmo-
nies. But it is spicy, in a good way. 3/5
Malta [Chiara - “What If We”]
(Placed 6th) A power ballad. Awesome
voice. Then again, last year’s winner
sang a ballad, what are the chances?
3/5
Sweden [Malena Ernman – “La
Voix”] (Placed 7th) A coloratura so-
prano’s opera-pop. Nessum D’Orma
meets Kylie Minogue. It runs the fly or
flop risk, but it is nice to have some-
thing different. I personally love it. 5/5
United Kingdom [Jade Ewen – “It’s
My Time”] (Placed 8th) Another big
ballad penned by Andrew Lloyd Web-
ber and Diane Warren.Wrong song,
right act. It will be interesting to see
how this fares, as Britain has not seen
the upper half of the scoreboard for
some time now. 4/5
Spain [Soraya Arnelas - “La noche
es para mí”] (Placed 9th) Sounds like
night club during holiday season. Sung
in Spanish – good. The big four have
not done very well since the start of the
millenium, could this year be the year?
3/5
Bosnia & Herzegovina [Regina -
“Bistra voda”] (Placed 10th) Very eth-
nic. Performance could depend on
presentation. 3/5
Belarus [Petr Elfimov - “Eyes That
Never Lie”] (Placed last) More 80’s
synth rock. Sung by Elvis-wannabe
with long blonde hair. Better than Mac-
edonia, and the voice is fantastic. 4/5
Croatia[Igor Cukrov feat. Andrea
- “Lijepa Tena”] (Placed 41st) Kudos
for singing in own language. The song
features a very pretty tune, but doesn’t
quite pack the punch required to land
a good result. The artists aren’t very
exciting either – a mismatched duo
seems to be the words coming to mind.
2/5
Latvia[Intars Busulis - “Probka”[]
(Placed 40th) A bit manic. Lots of
sounds happening at once. Would like
to see stage presentation. This song is
about sitting in a traffic jam, and that is
just the way it feels. 0/5
Czech Republic [Gipsy.cz - “Aven
Romale”] (Placed 39th) A bit too car-
toonish for me. Remember the Roma-
nian knitting brides from last year?
Latvia’s pirates? A bit like that. 1/5
Hungary [Zoli Ádok - “Dance with
Me”] (Placed 38th) Oh my. Very disco.
Tune does not sound “fresh”; I cannot
say anything special about it. May ac-
complish more things in a commercial
setting. 1/5
FYR Macedonia[Next Time -
“Neshto shto ke ostane”] (Placed 37th)
Rocker image + 80’s synth + mediocre
vocals = faux pas. 1/5
Andorra [Susanne Georgi - “La teva
decisió (Get a Life)”] (Placed 36th)
Does not “pop”. In fact, it screams
tweenpop and not in the best way. The
artist is sweet and simple, but not the
ideal thing to take to Eurovision. 0/5
Slovakia [Kamil Mikulčík and Nela
Pocisková - “Leť tmou”] (Placed 35th) I
find it a pleasant song, with a gripping
refrain that is not done justice by the
singers. No more. 2/5
Poland [Lidia Kopania - “I Don’t
Wanna Leave”](Placed 34th) Love the
tune and the voice. Would have been
a great commercial release. It may suf-
fer from the fact that Malta’s ballad has
had much more publicity. 4/5
Cyprus[ChristinaMetaxa-“Firefly”]
(Placed 33rd) On the far side of Alanis
Morissette, with a bad voice. I really do
not know what this song is doing on
the Eurovision stage. They’re working
the organic look in their video, where-
as Eurovision is mostly bling. 0/5
Perhaps I will be eating my words
soon, but you know what they say:
“what happens at Eurovision, stays in…
hnnn….”
a massive grin and simply answered
“No. DANCE COMMANDER!” before
breaking out into funky dance moves
and jumping on top of his mates.
Ending on the anthemic “Germans
In Mexico” and its riveting chorus of
“Sing everybody, Deutsche Deutsche,
Vaya Con Dios Amigos”, the entire
room, arm in arm, lovingly waved the
band goodbye, after an exhilarating
night that actually turned out to be
more of a wild party than a gig. Elec-
tric Six are far from dead. And though
sadly by many they will only ever be
remembered as “the Gay Bar band”, for
those really in the know, they are very
much the best party band in the entire
world.
Mumford & Sons
Expect to see more of this at this years Eurovison Song Contest
You, yes you there... I want to take you to the gay bar, gay bar, gay bar

