imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Remember what it was like to be starting at Imperial? Moving to
London and starting university can be a daunting prospect. So who
better to welcome new students to Imperial than existing students
who have lived through the same nerve-wracking experience?
Help us give our students the best possible welcome.
100% of volunteers said they would recommend the experience to a
friend!
Get involved this Welcome Week by signing up online.
imperialcollegeunion.org/helloicu
The Sports Review is a joint project between Imperial College Union and
Sport Imperial, aiming to create a joined up, more effective and more
inclusive sporting offer at Imperial.
A student body consultation has highlighted a general push towards
enabling participation on a more casual basis, with major barriers
involving time, location, and capacity of facilities. We would love to hear
your feedback before consultation closes on Friday 13 May. To give us
your view about sports go to:
imperialcollegeunion.org/news/consultation-sports-review
The Sports Review - tell us know what you think!
Sign up to Activities Training
Personalised graduation gifts!
#helloicu
crew
We are delighted to inform you that we have introduced a unique,
personalised gift range. Our fine partners work directly with you to craft
the ideal rings, watches, frames and plaques. Choose from their range,
designed exclusively for Imperial College London, and then add your own
personal touch. Bespoke options may include your name, degree subject
and award.
For students graduating in May 2016, you are entitled to a special £100
discount on the price of the watch for orders placed by Friday 20 May
2016. For online orders please use voucher code GR2016 to get this
discount. Order yours now!
imperialcollegeunion.org/graduation-gifts
Team Activites are launching the specialised Club, Society and Project training next week. This is specifically for new officers and for principal officers
starting to handover.
Training consists of:
A Handover Training - Friday 6 May A How to Get Noticed - Marketing & Publicity Training - Monday 9 May
A How to Get Funded - Tuesday 10 May A Room Bookings Training - Thursday 12 May
A How to Handover - Monday 16 May A Thanks! Is there any specific text I can use from somewhere? - Tuesday 17 May
A Leading and Motivating Teams - Thursday 19 May A How to Get Funded - Friday 20 May
A Leading & Motivating Teams - Monday 23 May A Room Bookings Training - Monday 23 May
A How to Get Funded - Thursday 26 May A Leading & Motivating Teams - Tuesday 7 June
Sign up at imperialcollegeunion.org/activities-training

