18 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
31.10.2014
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
The evolution of pop
Lady Gaga indicates how big a bargain these latest tickets are. Photo: Wiki Commons
Amna Samar Askari discusses her thoughts on a changing genre
What’s on this week
Saturday,1st November: MØ @ O2 Shepherd’s Bush
Empire.
You might have seen her supporting AlunaGeorge last
year and her debut album,NoMythologiesToFollow,sees
a collaboration with Diplo.Despite being fresh from a
controversial performance with Iggy Azealia on SNL,this
is a chance to see MØ bring her alt-pop to a packed-out
Empire in her own right..
Monday,1st November: Twin Atlantic @ The Round-
house
Screw the haters,if you want to see these Glaswegian
rockers provide riffs and feels in equal measure,then you
go ahead.
Wednesday,5th November:The War on Drugs @ The
Roundhouse
Adam Granduciel,the anti-frontman,leads his troupe
in providing dreamy,sensitive alt-rock to an equally
dreamy and sensitive crowd.
Thursday,6th November: The Knife @ Brixton Academy
It’s oficial! They’re breaking up,and this is (almost)
deinitely their inal UK performance.If you don’t fancy
forking out for flights and tickets to the Icelandic music
festival that will be their very last,this hedonistic night
in Brixton is your best bet.If this really is goodbye,it
should be a farewell to remember.
Joanna Gruesome & Perfect Pussy @ The Dome Tufnell
Park
Don’t miss these irm friends in punk playing a riotous
joint gig in Islington on Thursday.Tickets to this mosh-
worthy evening of girl power are just a snip at £8.50.
GRACE RAHMAN
Lady Gaga’s upcoming ARTPOP
Ball tour hits the UK this
November, with tickets starting
at just £13 in comparison to the
atrocious minimum £70 for any Lady
Gaga gig around three years ago.
The charts are now dominated
by unique and brilliant vocals and
compositions from upcoming artists
like Lorde, Sam Smith, Ariana
Grande, and Clean Bandit. Big
names like Justin Timberlake and
Taylor Swift have only managed to
sustain their popularity by mixing up
their music with different genres and
styles in their new albums.
Pop music is slowly being redefined
from where it got to in the mid to
late 2000’s to a new amalgamation
of indie, soul and electronic tunes.
People are finally starting to
appreciate real music and meaningful
lyrics as opposed to changing their
Facebook statuses to “Which seat can
I take?”
Although it was finally time to
graduate from that mindset, you
would be surprised at how hard it
is to get basic redundant melodies
out of your head, no matter how
horrible the lyrics. Essentially, this
metamorphosis is not because we
opened our eyes, but a result of a
combination of things.
Firstly, the recent rise of new radio-
based music apps (which obviously
comes with an increase in people that
download and use them because of
the booming smartphone and tablet
obsession. There are over 40 million
active Spotify users). Established
music apps like SoundCloud and
Spotify now have automatic playlist
generation and recommendation
options where you can jump
from genre to genre and listen to
similar artists. YouTube recently
launched a feature where streaming
a song automatically directs you
to another video playlist which
consists of 50+ songs that you might
like based on your current choice.
Therefore, people’s options are being
exponentially multiplied giving them
a chance to experience and appreciate
new genres and all in all improve
their music taste.
Secondly, the ‘Deep house’
obsession. Although deadmau5 was
considered cool in 2010, electronic
music wasn’t really appreciated as
much as it is now. It is obvious by the
amount of upcoming and aspiring
DJs. Sales of mixing equipment have
gone up by around 30% in the last
two years, with people focusing on
mixing chart music with their own
twist, rather than creating endlessly
long instrumental samples. Famous
clubs and bars have slowly started
to play and focus on ‘chilled’ beats
rather than Sean Kingston and Chris
Brown. Pretty much everyone is just
waiting for ‘the drop’ these days.
Also, the antiquation of album
sales With the rise of torrents and
streaming, most artists today make
their money from live performances
rather than album sales. This
automatically filters out the ones that
based their fortune of auto-tune and
not actual talent.
Finally, general globalisation
and an increasing appreciation of
different cultures. Fusion has always
been around, but has, thankfully,
slowly crept into chart music; a case
in point is the loop in ‘La La La’ by
Naughty Boy ft. Sam Smith: an
excerpt from a classical Indian folk
song.
So hurray for pop music not being
synonymous with trashy lyrics and
auto-tune anymore! Let’s hope that
the music industry continues to
evolve and appreciate talent from all
across the world.
Photo: Andy Ford/NME

