THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 23
31.10.2014
FELIX
Arts Editor Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
My Art: Barbican Centre
The Barbican Towers Photo: Creative Commons
Dara Rasasingam tells us about her favourite spot in London
What’s On This Week
1. Although this probably falls more under the Film
section’s remit,Mr.Turnertells the story of J.M.W.Turner,
the artist who challenged the artistic order of his time
to pave the way into our modern way of seeing.With
a life as tumultuous as his spectacular sea paintings,
hopefully this ilm,which comes out on Friday 31st
October,will do the great artist justice.
2.WomenFashionPower,need I say more! This
exhibition at the Design Museum looks at the role
fashion has played in enhancing the careers of 25
incredible women from the 20th Century.It explores
how fashion can be used as a form of self expression and
female empowerment as women sought to overcome
the male dominated worlds of politics,culture,business
and fashion.Until 26th
April
3.FromtheForesttotheSea:EmilyCarrinBritishColumbia
at the Dulwich Picture Gallery is the UK’s irst exhibition
of an artist unknown outside her native country of
Canada.With paintings that overflow with love and
expression,Carr travelled extensively amongst the First
Nation people of Canada,capturing the beauty of their
culture.Until 8th
March
4.‘WhoAreYou?’asks Grayson Perry in his exhibition at
the National Portrait Gallery.As someone who himself
challenges people’s perceptions of identity,the cross-
dressing artist has created 14 portraits,from tapestries
to ceramics,that all try and ask this question.Until 15th
March
5.You’re bound to come across some of Richard
Tuttle’s works in London,with both an exhibition at
the Whitechapel Gallery and an installation in Tate
Modern’s vast turbine hall.IDon’tKnow acts as a survey of
the artist’s rich 50 year career,looking at his exploration
of textile,painting and poetry in what is sure to be a
wonderfully varied retrospective.Until 14th
December
"The
Barbican is
cut from a
different
cloth"
"It is the
closest the
artistically
inclined
have to a
Mecca."
In the summer, whenever I have
time off from lectures, I like
to make a pilgrimage. Taking
the District Line down from South
Kensington, I get off at Mansion
House; twisting through the streets of
the Golden Mile, dodging city slickers
and corporate lawyers, a cluster of
buildings soon come into view - the
labyrinthine, awe-inspiring Barbican
Centre.
Designed by Chamberlin, Powell &
Bon, and built between 1965-76, the
Barbican is cut from a different cloth
than the buildings surrounding it;
while they are made of shimmering
glass, temples to high-tech finance,
the Barbican is formed from raw
concrete, relentlessly carving out its
own space within the city.
The term Barbican comes from
the old French word Barbacane,
meaning the outer defence of a walled
city or castle. While the name was
chosen millennia before the complex
was built, it is serendipitous how
well the name matches up to the
buildings. With miles of walkways,
which tunnel through buildings, it is
worryingly easy to get lost; cement
arches loom over you, while concrete
balustrades form outposts from
the main structures. In essence, the
Barbican reclaims the original ethos
of the area – it is a brutalist dragon,
jealously guarding the treasure at its
centre: the glittering gem of London’s
cultural crown, the Barbican Centre
itself.
With a concert hall, two theatres,
a music school, three restaurants,
two art galleries, and a greenhouse,
the Barbican Centre is the closest
the artistically-inclined have to a
Mecca. It is a cathedral of culture,
like a wondrous mirage in the middle
of a corporate desert. From film to
theatre, music to dance, everything
you could ask for can be found here,
eclipsing any other venues in London.
However, even if you’re not that
much of a culture vulture – and to
be honest, it can be difficult to find
the time – you can still enjoy the
Barbican. As you peel away the layers
of cement, penetrating the outer walls
of this fortress, you come across a
lush, verdant centre. Vines trail down
from balcony apartments; fountains
spring up, the dappling water creating
a melodic soundtrack to a lazy day;
and little niches form areas where
you can easily wile away an entire
afternoon.
On hot summer days, when Hyde
Park is full to bursting, and The
Hampstead Ponds are at full capacity,
you can always rely on the Barbican
Centre to provide a calm clearing
within the city’s concrete jungle. Take
your friends, take a picnic, take a
bottle of good wine, and see how easy
it is to spend an entire day soaking up
the sun’s rays at this magnificently
brutal tribute to modern culture.
DARA RASASINGAM
3RD YEAR MED STUDENT
The Barbican Centre is open Mon -
Sat, 9am-11pm; Sun, 10am-11pm. Their
programme includes Theatre, Cinema,
Dance, Music, and Arts, as well as
special events and talks.
Current highlights include the City
Visions programme of films and art
exhibits. Next year will see a Samual
Beckett season, celebrating the work of
the Irish playwrite.
For a full programme of events, please
visit www.barbican.org.uk
Arts Editorial –
London: From
Old to New
FRED FYLES & KAMIL
MCCLELLAND
SECTION EDITORS
This week feels like an homage to the
greatness of London as a cultural centre.
In what other city do you have such a wide
varietyofartonoffer,whateveryourtaste?
First of all, we have Dara’s My Art article,
where she professes her undying love for
the Barbican Centre, so often derided as
a brutalist monstrosity that weighs heavy
on the city’s skyline. Hopefully, her article
will help convert some to the way of 60’s
architecture.
Next, we have Lizzie’s look at the world
of Giovanni Battista Moroni, an artist
that history seems to have forgotten. As
Renaissance portraiture goes, there really
is no one better! I mean, just look at the
way he captures the sitter’s emotion. But
we’ll let Lizzie tell you more about that.
With any luck, this exhibition will bring
him back onto people’s radars after much
too long.
Now looking more at the modern day,
Fred talks about The National Videogame
Arcarde opening in Nottingham, which
looks to throw the art world into chaos
as it redefines what art is in the digital
age, where people’s greatest exposure to
design and creativity is often through the
medium of video games. We’ll see how it
all pans out.
The Anatomy of Melancholy is part of a
rare breed, a contemporary opera. Such is
the skill and expense required to create an
opera that you hardly ever see a new one
come on the seen. We sent Elizaveta to go
and see whether the production lived up to
this expectation and whether it was able to
tackle the gargantuan issue of depression
with any new insight.
Well there you go, from Brutalist
architecture to Renaissance painting,
video games and finally contemporary
opera, London (and Nottingham) has it all!
What more could you want?

