28 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
31.10.2014
Television Editors Guila Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wir Sind Alle Freaks
John Park enters FX’s American Horror Story: Freak Show
There is a line of dialogue in
American Horror Story: Coven
that reads as follows: “Do
you really think with Twitter and
Faceback that a witch does anything
at all she won’t be videotaped and
turned into some viral FREAK
SHOW like a dog who says “I love
you”?” . Now was this a clever hint
dropped by Ryan Murphy and Brad
Falchuk, the creators of the American
Horror Story anthology, subtly
directing us all to the next season, or
was this nothing more than a freakish
coincidence? We will never truly
know, but the American Horror Story
series, now in its fourth season, aptly
named Freak Show, is as twisted and
deliriously entertaining packed full of
over the top characters and storylines
that open themselves up for all sorts
of shocks and reveals.
As the title suggests, the fourth
season takes place in Elsa Mars’
(Jessica Lange) very own freak
show, a rundown circus that
attracts locals who basically come
to laugh and marvel at the circus
cast of individuals with all sorts of
deformities. Her latest headlining act
is a pair of conjoined twins Bette and
Dot (both played by Sarah Paulson),
the kind of attraction no one has
ever seen before. Of the existing
members, we have Ethel (Kathy
Bates) the bearded lady, her son
Jimmy (Evan Peters) with syndactyly,
as well as some new entries to the
circus tent, including strong man
Dell Toledo (Michael Chiklis), his
new wife Desiree (Angela Bassett)
who has three breasts instead of the
more traditional two, and the newest
member to the group, fortune-teller
Maggie Esmeralda (Emma Roberts)
who is actually a fraud with ulterior
motives, as is the case with most
people around this place.
What happens during one of
their performances is the least of
the show’s most troubling aspect.
In fact the big singing numbers,
masterfully done by Lange and
Paulson are really quite something.
What takes place outside the freak
show is more sickening. There is
a serial killer clown on the loose,
played chillingly by John Carroll
Lynch, who goes around terrorising
the town of Jupiter, Florida. Dandy
Mott (Finn Wittrock) is a grown man
who acts like a spoiled child, with his
rich mother Gloria (Frances Conroy)
condoning even the worst aspects
of his psychotic behaviour. Stanley
(Denis O’Hare) possesses a 13-inch
penis;what he plans on doing with it
has not been answered yet.
It certainly boasts an impressive
cast, and the award-winning
individuals are once again on
top form. Lange sports a tough
German accent to play the owner,
creating another fascinating, unique
character, which shows that this
series has been one of the best things
to happen to her career. Paulson is
particularly strong this season, and
she is an early serious contender for
the Best Actress Emmy. The creation
of the conjoined twins too marks one
hell of a technical achievement for
the anthology. The different camera
angles, and splitting of camera
screens at the right time show the
audience the different fields of vision
for both Bette and Dot.
Get ready for blood: lots of it. The
show has never been known for
subtlety, nor does it ever hold back
on gruesome images or body counts,
and this season is no different. In fact,
it has the opportunity to become the
most shocking yet.
Set in 1952, the bigotry and hate
towards the circus people are alive
and well, and it would appear the
show has a stance on that. ‘Freaks’,
or so the townspeople call them,
much to the circus performers’ anger
and annoyance, are people too, and
deserve the same level of respect and
rights as anyone else. Sound familiar?
That message was embedded into the
plots of Asylum and Coven, the show’s
previous two seasons. It is clearly
an issue that is close to Murphy’s
heart. This incessant repetition may
be an eye-rolling factor for some,
but when there are so many other
things going on, delivered in such
an unpredictable setting, even the
slowest scenes become bearable.
There is still plenty left for the
remaining episodes to explore, with
more famous names joining the cast.
Let the show commence.
Photo: huffingtonpost
Photo: fansided
Photo: decider
Photo: vixenvarsity
Photo: nydailynews

