THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 31
24.10.2014
FELIX
Editor Cecile Borkhataria
Fashion
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion Rules: regal fashion at Kensington Palace
Nam Cheah reviews the exhibition showcasing gowns worn by royals
Almost every girl has dreamt
of being a princess at some
point in her life. Being able
to live in a fairy-tale castle, enjoy the
privileges and most of all, the dresses
and beautiful outfits that come with
it. Look at Cinderella; she got a dress
from her fairy god mother and the
next thing you know, she fell in love
with a prince and they lived happily
ever after.
But princesses and royals don’t
just exist in fairy tales, and nor do
their beautiful dresses. Kensington
Palace has put on the Fashion Rules
exhibition showcasing HM Queen
Elizabeth, Princess Margaret and
Princess Diana’s dresses and outfits
ranging from the 50s to the 80s.
The exhibition is separated into
three sections, of outfits worn by the
Queen Elizabeth II in the 50s and
60s, Princess Margaret in the 60s and
70s and Princes Diana in the 80s.
Videos and covers of Vogue from the
respective eras are also on display.
The collection showcases many
designs; notably those by Norman
Hartnell, one of the Queen’s favorite
and designed many of her 50s ball
gowns. The young queen is more
conservative in her fashion but the
style still contains the essence of the
50s such as the full skirt.
During her tour in the 50s
commonwealth tour the queen had
commissioned many beautiful gowns
with design related to the national
flag colours and flowers of the visiting
country, for example the beautiful
Hardy Amies gown the young queen
wore to a banquet in Halifax was
incorporated with embroideries of
mayflowers (the official symbol of
Nova Scotia). The royal gowns she
wore are mostly full-skirted with
fitted bodices in light, pastel colours
that befit a queen. Fabrics were
mainly in silk with heavy beading
and embroidery.
Princess Margaret was considered
to be a fashion icon in the 60s
through to the 70s. The princess is
less conservative in style compared
to the queen, often at the forefront of
fashion with her choices. Collections
of her dresses and coats include
early works from Christian Dior.
The collection shows the transition
of fashion into the modern era. One
of her more modern choices is the
turban and kaftan made of exquisite
Indian sari silk.
Moving onto Princess Diana in the
80s; as one of the most photographed
woman in the world, her fashion
choices included a wide range of
designers from Catherine Walker to
Bruce Oldfield. Padded shoulders,
asymmetrical sleeves as well as a
dropped waistline were all in style
during the 80s.
If you are a true lover of fashion
or curious about the glamour of the
royals, this exhibition is a must-see.
Not to mention, the exhibition do not
require any extra fees apart from the
entrance fee to Kensington Palace,
which is magnificent to see in itself,
and this with the added fashion bonus
of seeing a range of styes, including
the Victorian era style and Queen
Victoria’s wedding dress.
Top right: Dress worn by Princess Margaret. Bottom right: Silk Kaftan worn by Princess Margaret Photo: Nam Cheah

