38 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
31.10.2014
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
In case you missed it... – The World Sport Column
South African football captain
Senzo Meyiwa was killed by
armed robbers in his girlfriend’s
house. It is believed that he was
trying to defend his girlfriend before
the robbers demanded his mobile
phone; a shot was fired in the ensuing
altercation. The South African police
have launched a major manhunt
for his killers, who fled on foot. As
a tribute to the goalkeeper, South
Africa have moved their upcoming
match against Sudan to Durban,
which was Meyiwa’s home town.
In other news, Andy Murray
confirmed his place at the World
Tour Finals in London next month
with a supreme victory over Grigor
Dimitrov in the Paris Masters. Last
week Murray won a marathon match
against Tommy Robredo to win the
Valencia Open, in which he had to
save five match points.
Defending Champions Manchester
City were sent out of the League Cup
by Newcastle on Wednesday night.
On Sunday evening Manchester
United scored in the 94th minute
to rescue a draw against Chelsea in
the Premier League, sparking wild
celebrations.
Jonathan Trott has been selected
for the England Lions in cricket.
Trott was sidelined in December
after complaining of a stress related
illness, but made his comeback for
Warwickshire during the summer.
It’s been a tough couple of weeks for
Australia captain Michael Clarke, as
his team were ruthlessly dismantled
by Pakistan. The second match hasn’t
started well either – Pakistan ended
day one on 304-2.
The NFL made a return to
Wembley last weekend, with
the Detroit Lions completing a
remarkable comeback against the
Atlanta Falcons to win 22-21.
Kunal Wagle takes a look at what’s been going on in the world of sport
Senzo Meyiwa was shot dead in his girlfriend's house last Sunday evening Photo: Getty Images
Would a British NFL franchise be successful?
Last Sunday was the 10th NFL
game to be hosted at Wembley
Stadium. The competing
teams were the Atlanta Falcons,
who sacrificed a game at their home
stadium to travel over here, and
the Detroit Lions. The first half of
the game was a great start for the
Falcons, who finished the half with
a 21 point lead, however the game
turned in the second half and came
down to the last 4 seconds when the
Lions kicked a field goal to win by a
score of 22-21. This was the second
of three NFL games being played
at Wembley this year – the most
American Football games to be
played in the UK during one season.
The possibility of having a London-
based NFL team has beenmootedby
various people sincetheNFL’s
firstforay into Wembley in 2007,but
the idea has been revived recently
after George Osborne told NFL
officials that the UK government
wouldsupport any plans tostart
anNFL London franchise. This is an
incredibly excitingprospectfor the
2 million plusNFLfans who live in
the UK. But American Football teams
are not cheap to run when based on
US soil, never mind the added cost of
being located across the Atlantic.
In order to explore the likelihood
of permanent NFL success in
London,itisworthconsideringthe
attendance statistics for the games.
The past fivegames at Wembley
have reached attendances ofmore
than83,000,with the number set
to increase for the final game of
this year,on 9 November, whenthe
Jacksonville Jaguars take on the
Dallas Cowboys,arguably the most
internationally well-known team in
the league.
Clearly there is a strong enough
following for a team on this side of
the pond but whether the attendance
would remain this highifAmerican
Football at Wembley became a
regular occurrencefor a full seasonis
adifficultquestion to answer. Having
been to games myself, my bet would
be that it would continue to attract a
large crowd,since UK NFL fans are
dedicated to the game asawhole, not
just oneparticularteam.
Furthermore,the enthusiasm
and interaction with the crowd
at American Football games (and
indeed all American sports games
I have attended) createstheoverall
experience of acompleteday out
with entertainment from gymnasts,
mascots, cheerleaders and acts during
half-time,not just watching the
playersand the game itself.
Incentives like free flags and
t-shirts give even those who have no
idea about the game the opportunity
to feel involved and get the sense of
belonging to a team.
The financial side oftheNFL
will no doubt be the driving force
in whether plans foraLondon-
based team will come to fruition.
The broadcasterESPN pays$1.9
billionper yearfor the right to show
NFL games whilst BSkyB signed
anewfive-year deal in September
to ensure theyretainthe major
broadcasting rights in the UK. The
fact that this contract was signed
proves that businesses also see the
potential for the NFL UK market.
Indeed, this could help shorten the
predicted wait times for American
football in the UK. Arthur Blank,
owner oftheAtlanta Falcons, has
suggestedthe NFL London franchise
is only six or seven years away from
becoming a reality,but with major
companies pushingtheNFL in the
right direction for UK audiences,it
could be sooner
Many people have suggested that
an NFL team in London would create
too much of problem in terms of
logistics. According to the Falcons,
they flew 221 people over4210 miles
across the globe and we can assume a
similar number of people for Detroit
If an NFL team were to be based
in London,the equipment would
remain in the team base but transport
for team and staff would still be a
necessity.When asked about this,
Arthur Blanklooked to teams from
San Diego and Seattle as examples
of long distance travel not being too
much ofan issue for NFL teams at
present. Admittedly,the east coast
of the US is closer to the west coast
thanit isto the UK,but there are still
significant amounts of travel and
time zone changesrequired as it is.
It was also suggested that games
would be played in blocks similar to
those in baseball matches, where the
London-based team would play three
games at home and then three games
in theUS, reducing the expense.
Ultimately, it appears that the
foundations for an NFL London
team are rock solid. The fan base
exists and is substantial enough to
sell an adequate amount of tickets
for it to work. There is support
from influential sources like the
UKgovernment,and NFL teams are
willing to travel to London to play
games. NFL officials are hoping
for another surge in fans to boost
attendances even more,so it is likely
there will be many more games at
Wembley over the next few years.
Check it out if you get the chance –
it’s an experience you won’t forget!
Phoebe Hunter discusses of the possibility of a permanent team at Wembley
The Jaguars return to Wembley next week Photo: Neil Barnes

