Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Issue 1586
Taking the Plunge – the story of skydiving
There’s a long-standing myth
that states that anyone who
goes skydiving is either
mad, has no concept of death or is
emotionally-blackmailed into doing
it because their mum bought them
a voucher for their birthday. What I
discovered was a group of inspiring,
friendly people who engage in an
activity with one of the best safety
records of any extreme sport.
I did my ground training in October
2013, having just started my first
year at Imperial. Around that time
I kind of happened upon the idea of
learning to skydive. I hadn’t really
ever thought about it before. In fact,
I don’t think I ever really thought
anyone learned to skydive.
Of course, I had the odd friend
who had taken the plunge and done
a charity skydive or gone just one
time, but they were always tandem
skydives – that is, they were strapped
to an instructor and didn’t have to
do anything except look like they
were having a good time and resist
the urge to maul the person who was
DRAGGING THEM OUT OF AN
AIRPLANE.
So anyway, having never really
considered myself a daredevil or
adrenaline-junkie, I found myself
standing at the ‘Imperial College
Skydiving’ stall at Freshers’ Fair.
There I was, talking to someone with
more than a hundred solo jumps
under their belt, an Imperial student
just like me – but I could never do
that, right? I mean, this guy must
secretly jump motorbikes over buses
and set himself on fire and fight
sharks with his bare hands.
But he looks normal, and I overhear
him complaining about how he hates
his landlord and how his lab report
is overdue, at which point I realise
that not only is he normal, he is in
fact completely unremarkable. Oh
right, yeah, apart from the hundred
plus skydives. Ok, well I guess I’ll
sign up to the mailing list, I thought.
Who knows, maybe I could try it, and
impress people in the future.
The next thing I know, it’s 09:00 on
a cold but sunny October morning,
and I’m standing in a field in Kent.
Such is the glamorous lifestyle of
a skydiver, I suppose. The week
before, I had signed myself up for an
Imperial trip to a ground-training
day, and now here I was.
This training was all that I needed
to do my first solo skydive, as per
the British Parachuting Association
regulations. I must say, to the
instructor’s credit, it was during this
10-hour, intensive training, that I
realised that I really, really wanted to
skydive. Call it Stockholm syndrome
if you want to, but if you find
yourself doing nothing but exit drills,
landing practice and canopy-control
technique for an entire day, it starts
to grow on you.
I started to realise that what sets a
skydiver apart from a non-skydiver
has nothing to do with genetics, or
personality, or a reckless disregard
for personal safety. Nope, it’s much
simpler than that. A skydiver is –
wait for it – someone who has jumped
out of a plane. Yep. Nothing gets past
me. But what I mean when I say that
is that the only reason anyone ever
became a skydiver, whether solo or
tandem, is that they told themselves
that they had it in them to do it, and
then actually did it!
Anyone that can do these two steps
is a skydiver. Easy, right? Well, by
enrolling in the ground training, I
had done the first step. I owed it to
myself to prove to everyone that I
could manage the second step.
Only a couple of days after my
ground training, I did it, my first
jump. I can’t tell you much about it,
as it was all a bit of a blur. What I can
say though, is that it wasn’t scary.
It was surreal, like an out of body
experience, but the whole situation
was so foreign to my hyper-reacting
brain that I didn’t even get a chance
to be scared. My training had
prepared me more than adequately
for what was about to happen, and I
was sitting opposite my instructor on
the plane, which was very reassuring.
I would say the oddest thing I
remember was the sensation of
having nothing but 3,500 feet of
empty air between your feet and the
ground when sitting at the door of
the plane, ready to perform your
exit – that is to say, to fling yourself
desperately at the ground.
For my first jump the parachute
deployed itself via an attachment to
the airplane so, aside from the initial
couple of seconds shock, it mainly
consisted of a parachute ride. There
aren’t many things in life that I would
say are breathtaking, but given that
this article is so far lacking in clichés,
I feel that it is a very appropriate
description. It’s not a long ride –
maybe 5 minutes – but it was long
enough for me to realise that I was
now a skydiver.
I also realised that this sport would
become a big part of my life. I’ve since
gained my skydiving A-licence after a
year of training and done more than
20 solo jumps from 12000 feet, with
up to a minute of freefall each time
– but I still have a lot to learn! Along
with 3 other members of the Imperial
Skydiving club, I’m hoping to set up
a formation skydiving team for the
first time in the club’s history, later
this academic year.
Imperial College Parachute and
Skydiving Club organises training
trips throughout the year for anyone
wishing to experience solo skydiving.
They also run frequent tandem and
windtunnel trips for those who want
to try things out before being left to
their own devices in the sky. For more
information visit their website at
https://union.ic.ac.uk/rcc/parachute/
or email parachute1@ic.ac.uk.
Jonny Jackson describes the thrill of jumping out of a plane...
Photo: IC Skydiving
Photo: IC Skydiving

