THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 7
31.10.2014
FELIX
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Kunal Wagle
World News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rocket Explosion is huge setback
Jasper Menkus reports on the explosion, and its impact on private spacelights
The Boston Consulting Group is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity / expression, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected under applicable law.
The Boston Consulting Group is a global management consulting irm, which works with the world’s leading
businesses on their toughest strategic and operational questions. We are seeking exceptional candidates from
varied academic backgrounds to join our London oice.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
APPLICATION PERIODS:
FULL-TIME APPLY BEFORE 01 NOVEMBER 2014
INTERNSHIP 01 JANUARY 2015 – 31 JANUARY 2015
VISIT:
IMPERIAL.BCG.COM
FACEBOOK.COM/BCGINLONDON
BCG IS RECRUITING THIS AUTUMN
On Tuesday at 22.22 GMT,
space enthusiasts watched
in horror as an unmanned
Antares rocket bound for the
International Space Station (ISS)
exploded shortly after lift-off from
Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport
(MARS), a commercial launch facility
in Virginia, USA. Its payload – a
Cygnus automated cargo spacecraft
bearing supplies and experiments to
the ISS – was lost.
It could have been much worse.
Mercifully, this didn’t happen to
a manned rocket. There were no
injuries on the ground and damage
to the pad at MARS appears to be
minimal.
The ISS isn’t going to run out of
supplies any time soon: a Russian
Progress spacecraft on a similar
resupply mission (which had already
been scheduled months earlier)
successfully docked with the ISS on
Wednesday morning. The scientific
payload lost on Tuesday will be
harder to replace, however.
The Antares rocket and Cygnus
spacecraft are both manufactured
by Orbital Sciences Corporation,
an American aerospace company
which hopes to profit from NASA’s
policy of contracting out near-Earth
spaceflight to private companies
in order to focus on long-range
missions. Orbital’s share price
dropped 15% as soon as markets
opened on Wednesday morning,
and at the time of writing does not
show signs of rallying soon. However,
unless Orbital is shown to have really
screwed up somewhere, this shouldn’t
materially affect their future
contracts with NASA – rocketry is
hard and “vehicle anomalies” like
these are an accepted feature of
spaceflight.
Apart from Orbital, NASA, and
the human race in general, one of the
biggest losers in all this is Planetary
Resources, Inc., a start-up which
ultimately aims to mine near-Earth
asteroids for valuable resources.
The Cygnus was carrying a
miniature satellite (to be launched
from the ISS) which would have
tested systems for a new generation
of asteroid-prospecting telescopes.
Planetary Resources remains
resilient: in a recent statement, they
assert: “our development schedule has
not been affected”.
The site of the explosion is still
being surveyed by NASA and others,
and it will be a while before we see
any official description of what went
wrong. Whatever happens, Orbital
should expect a lot of scrutiny to fall
on their use of (modified) old Russian
NK-33 rocket engines.
These were designed in the late
1960s and manufactured in large
quantities for the Soviet Union’s
manned moon programme which was
cancelled after the USSR definitively
lost the Space Race. The engines
sat in a warehouse until the mid-
1990’s when Aerojet (now Aerojet
Rocketdyne), an American aerospace
company, bought the surplus (i.e.
cheap) engines and reconditioned
them. These forty year-old engines
eventually found their way onto the
Antares, prompting Elon Musk, CEO
of SpaceX (which is Orbital’s direct
competitor in the private spaceflight
industry), to say in a 2012 interview,
“their rocket honestly sounds like the
punchline to a joke”.
Right now, nobody’s laughing.
Antares Rocket taking off Photo: Associated Press

