THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 9
31.10.2014
FELIX
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Remember those summer weeks
when your entire Facebook
feed was filled with people
pouring cold water over themselves
and making some form of disgruntled
exclamations about the fact?
Everyone from Victoria Beckham to
my own mother took part in the ALS
Ice Bucket Challenge, and good on
them too.
The ALS foundation in the USA
raised $100 million in August
2014 off the back of the ice bucket
challenge. For comparison, in August
2013, it raised just $2.8 million. ALS
is a terrible condition and the money
donated by ice bucket challengers
is already beginning to be put to
use helping find cures for it. Other
international funds such as ALS
Australia and MND here in the UK
have received orders-of-magnitude
increases in donations, and are also
funding research, both domestic and
international.
Most medical research relies
heavily on the use of animal models
to characterise how diseases affect
sufferers, and how they can be
controlled and cured. Research
into ALS is no exception. Public
opinion of animal testing for medical
purposes remains largely in favour,
but is dropping. 10 years ago, support
for medical research on animals stood
at 75%; it’s now down to 68%.
As well as this drop in support,
pollsters Ipsos MORI found that if
you phrase the question differently,
you get different results. Asking
the public if ‘Animal Research’ was
acceptable, 68% of people replied that
it was. If this is changed to the more
grizzly ‘Animal Experimentation’ the
number in favour drop to 64%.
64% is still a large majority of
public opinion in favour of animal
testing. However the most interesting
finding of Ipsos MORI’s poll was that
only 30% of Brits feel they are “well
informed” about animal research in
the UK. 1 in 3 respondents thought
that animals could be used for
cosmetics research, even though this
has been illegal for 15 years.
The ALS foundation is not secretive
about how its money goes to animal
experiments; you can click straight
through to a press statement about
mouse model research from the
ALS homepage. However it has been
careful to spend most of its new cash
on stem cell research to avoid any
potential public outcry from people
who donated without realising they
would be supporting animal testing
they could be opposed to. The sheer
volume of donations it received
combined with the fact that up to
36% of the population are opposed to
animal testing — and 70% don’t really
get what it entails — suggest that a
large spending spree on pulling rats
apart would almost certainly result in
a negative backlash.
ALS charities now sit on pots of
gold larger than some countries’
economies. They may be able to hold
off funding vivisection in the short
term whilst the public eye is still
on them, but they’re going to have
Old movie or new? Photo: The Artist; Studio 37, Warner Bros.; wonderlandmagazine.com
MATT ALLINSON
COMMENT WRITER
to spend it on animal experiments
eventually. And rightly so: diseases
aren’t cured by pouring buckets of
water over celebrities.
Instead of posing a dilemma to
these charities, this is now the perfect
time to engage with the public over
animal testing. The charities should
publicly promote all their different
types of research — including their
animal models — and describe how
these tie in to other human based
studies. More effort could be made to
discuss the strict ethical frameworks
that surround animal testing with the
public, as well as the efforts made to
prevent unnecessary suffering, and
the current research that’s taking
place to do away with animal models
entirely.
The goodwill that ALS research
is currently experiencing is
unprecedented and could prove the
perfect backdrop to increase the
understanding of animal research
that the public both wants, and is
owed.
It was the sort of sunny afternoon
when girls put on floral skirts
and pin their hair up. As I
floppily moved my mouse to click
on a link someone had just shared,
my eyes widened. It was a list called
“Upcoming Movies 2015”, and
there were many names that made
my heart leap in familiarity. I saw
SpongeBob, Cinderella, Peanutws,
Star Wars, and loads of other old
friends who suddenly look back at
me from the foreseeable future. My
first thought: 2015 is going to be a
fun year. Second thought: are people
starting to appreciate old movies
more and more?
According to my observation, the
answer is yes. From the current
Halloween hit movie, Annabelle, to
last year’s Hitchcockian production
Two Faces of January, a retro wind is
obviously blowing strong. Besides
the cinematic retro trend, people
are trying to watch old movies by
themselves, though these are less
handy than the new ones in cinemas.
Imperial’s Filmsoc is also dedicated to
showing some “Oldies but Goodies”.
I myself could not believe it when I
watched 12 Angry Men, a black-and-
white movie, the whole way through
without looking at my watch, but I
did it. And I still remember bumping
into a stranger who suddenly started
talking, all excited, about an ancient
Chinese action movie in which people
still yell “yoooohoooo” before making
any move.
Why do modern people start paying
attention to movies of the past, or
of distant cultures? An escape from
reality fueled by availability of
resources, I first thought. The word
retro, as explained in Wikipedia,
means not just nostalgia, but
nostalgia with a hint of cynicism.
People are trying to get away from
the reality of films, The satisfaction
from all the fancy special effects has
reached its peak, and more often
effects just bore the audience out of
their mind. Also, there are claims
that developing film technology
is rendering actors lazy and
incompetent. People have come to a
dead end; they have nowhere to go.
It’s hard to technologically bring the
cinematic experience to a new level.
That was all I thought, until a recent
conversation changed my mind.
The growing retro taste in film does
not only reflect disappointment
towards modern filmmaking. It is a
good thing too. It is an indication of
how people think of films. People
are refusing to just accept what the
cinema has to offer and becoming the
selectors of what they watch. They
are striving to make different films,
to uproot themselves and plunge
themselves into another generation
or culture, because they expect more
than fun from the movies they
watch. People are asking the popcorn
entertainment to bite back at them,
and leave a mark. This is another
way of showing what matters most
in films is always the story. A good
story wins and the victory lasts.
Research Ethics at the Bottom of the Ice Bucket
Are people starting to enjoy old movies more?
Charity fads raise money for animal testing, but should the public
should be better informed?
Bearing this in mind, the next time I
see a retro movie in cinema, instead
of yearning and mocking, “gahh
they’ve run out of ideas”, I would
give a thumbs up to everyone. We
are still seeking good stories, and the
filmmakers, are trying hard to give us
what we seek.
Muni Wen ponders the revival of retro in modern cinema

