11
felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
Start here.
Get there faster.
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consultancy
An equal opportunity employer M/F/D/V
Visit us at oliverwyman.com
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consultancy. We combine deep industry knowledge
with specialised expertise in strategy, risk management, organisational transformation, and
leadership development.
At Oliver Wyman we offer a 10 week summer internship programme for students in their penultimate year of study. As an
intern with us you will work on high impact client engagements as a full team member, responsible for project delivery.
Penultimate year students can apply to either or both of our distinctive career tracks with one application:
Financial Services Management Consulting

General Management Consulting

Please apply online at www.oliverwyman.com/careers
Application deadline
28 January 2010
A possible glimpse of dark matter
Physicists observe events characteristic of possible dark matter components, but is it enough to prove its existence?
In early December last year, the par-
ticle physics community was abuzz
with rumours of a discovery made by
the Cryogenic Dark Matter Search
(CDMS-II) collaboration in the US.
Announcement talks were sched-
uled for 18th December, all seminars
before that cancelled and there were
rumours of a paper submitted by the
collaboration to Nature (a rumour,
however, that was refuted by a Sen-
ior Editor at Nature shortly after it
was started). The CDMS had, it was said,
found evidence of the existence of dark
matter.
It would have been the last major phys-
ics breakthrough of the noughties - but
sadly, it was not entirely true. The CDMS
were announcing their latest results, but
those results did not show irrefutable evi-
dence of dark matter’s existence.
Nevertheless, that does not mean
that what they have discovered isn’t
important. In a paper submitted to
arXiv on the same day as their an-
nouncement talks were held, the
CDMS team reported that they had
seen two events characteristic of a
particular class of possible dark matter
components called weakly interacting
massive particles, or WIMPs.
WIMPs are likely to have masses
similar to that of atomic nuclei. De-
spite having never been seen, they are
considered one of the main candidates
for dark matter, with the appropriately
named massive compact halo objects
(MACHOs) as their main rival. As
WIMPs only interact through the weak
nuclear force and gravity, they rarely
interact with normal matter, making
them very difficult to spot.
The CDMS experiment is located
half a mile underground in the dis-
used Soudan mine in Minnesota, and
uses germanium and silicon detectors
cooled to almost absolute zero. This
low temperature means that if a WIMP
does pass through these crystals, the
heat it generates will cause a charge
to move in an applied magnetic field,
and this in turn will cause a signal to be
sent to a computer in the lab. Once the
data has been collected, it is analysed
to distinguish the background events
from the interesting ones.
What the CDMS found was two
interesting events, showing charac-
teristics that would be expected from
WIMPs. However, there is still a 23%
chance that these events were merely
due to background particles such as
cosmic rays or radioactive decay. For
there to be no reasonable doubt of a
discovery, i.e. a less than one in a thou-
sand chance that the events seen were
not WIMPs, there would need to have
been five events present in the data
rather than two. Despite not showing
absolute proof, the results will help to
set new upper limits that may rule out
certain theories currently proposed to
explain the dark matter problem.
The CDMS collaboration are now
in the process of upping the sensitiv-
ity of their experiment by trebling the
number of detectors. The upgrade
should be finished by summer 2010,
then all they can do is sit back and wait
patiently for some WIMPs to come
along.
Kelly Oakes
Kelly Oakes
The CDMS uses five towers of six detectors to detect dark matter

