12
POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
In the wake of the attempted Christ-
mas Day bomb plot, Gordon Brown
announced new measures to better
track terrorist suspects and strengthen
airport security in the UK. The plans
involve the setting up of a “no fly list”
to prevent suspected terrorists travel-
ling to the UK and other individuals
will be forced to endure more exten-
sive checks. All direct flights between
the UK and Yemen are to be suspend-
ed indefinitely due to concerns over
Yemeni links to international terror-
ist organisations. Mr Brown said that
the UK faced “active” terrorist threats
from over the world.
Mr Brown ordered a review of air-
port security measures following the
attempted attack on a flight from
Detroit. This review and further in-
telligence briefings have led to the
development of these plans. Brown
told MPs that the government would
introduce various measures in or-
der to protect the UK’s borders and
strengthen aviation and airport secu-
rity up to the levels needed in these
times. He said that the Home Office’s
current watch list of terrorist suspects
would be extended and two new,
complementary watch lists are to be
created.
A list of those individuals banned
– the “no-fly list” – will deal with the
greater threats to national security
and a further list of individuals under
suspicion will be used to subject those
to “special measures” and more exten-
sive screening before being allowed to
travel to the UK.
By the start of next year all UK air-
ports and ports should be covered by
the e-borders scheme which allows
information that passengers provide
when initially purchasing tickets to be
checked against the watch lists. Mr
Brown stated that improved interna-
Politics Editor
Iraq inquiry warms up for Blair
Tony Blair will be called to give evi-
dence for the Iraq inquiry on 29th
January. The Iraq inquiry, otherwise
known as the Chilcot inquiry, was set
up by Gordon Brown to investigate
the British involvement in the Iraq
war, and has so far called in several
prominent figures – though none as
important as the then Prime Minister,
Mr Blair.
Many people regard the Iraq war as
being illegal – the conclusion of a re-
cent inquiry in the Netherlands, so the
6 hour grilling of the man who took the
nation to war, against the wishes of the
majority of the British public, should
prove interesting. So many people
want to see what could prove to be a
truly important moment in history
that a ballot was set up to get seats in
the audience at the enquiry, though the
number of applicants is far fewer than
might be expected if Mr Blair were to
go on trial as the war criminal so many
of us suspect him to be.
In the run up to the star attraction,
the inquiry has been warming up on
some of the others involved in taking
the country to war. Alistair Campbell,
the Labour spin doctor, successfully
spun his way out of embarrassment.
When questioned about why Blair
went to war his response was that
“Blair was somebody who fundamen-
tally believed that unless the world
confronted Saddam Hussein at that
time… then there would be a bigger
day of reckoning later and I think he
still believes that”.
What everyone else in the world
negatively refers to as regime change,
Alastair Campbell is proud of his in-
volvement, and believes that all of Brit-
ain should feel the same. He defended
“every word” of the 2002 dossier that
made all the spurious claims about
weapons of mass destruction. Appar-
ently it could have been “clearer”, but
did not “misrepresent” the evidence.
The claim that Saddam Hussein
could mobilise weapons in 45 min-
James Lees
James Lees
179 dead
The number of British soldiers who
died in the Iraq war. The inquiry seeks
to understand why they were sent to
war and will soon call Tony Blair – the
man who ultimately took the decision
to take the country to war.
29th January
The day Tony Blair will face 6 hours of
questioning on why he took Britain
to war in Iraq, whether he misled the
public and the legality of the war.
“...unless the world
confronted Saddam
Hussein at that
time... there would
be a bigger day of
reckoning”
Brown may face the inquiry soon
Geoff Hoon never shot anybody
Campbell wanted to go to war
Blair, soon to serve as a witness at the Chilcot inquiry on why he took us to war
utes is one of these things that could
have been made “clearer” according
to Mr Campbell, who insists that the
claim was only to do with battlefield
munitions.
This is also the line that Geoff Hoon,
who was Defence Secretary at the time
of the Iraq invasion, is taking about the
45 minute claim. So that’s two of the
people involved who have wriggled
out of the claim. Mr Blair should not
find it so easy though; the way he pre-
sented the information did not leave
Parliament with the impression that
the claim was only to do with battle-
field munitions.
Indeed, why would he use that evi-
dence to persuade Parliament? 45
minutes is actually a long time for the
leader of the country to have battle-
field weapons ready. Hoon also took
the opportunity to have a quick stab at
Gordon Brown, suggesting that Brown
had hampered the planning and fund-
ing of the war.
Until very recently it had seemed
that Brown would not be appearing
before the inquiry prior to the general
election, though in Prime Minister’s
questions on Wednesday he yielded
that he would appear before the in-
quiry whenever he was called.
The panel is expected to publish its
findings late 2010 or early 2011. How-
ever, unless George Bush is called, it
is unlikely that anything will prove
more interesting than the 29th, and
the events of that day will be reported
rapidly after the event.
Brown announces
new anti-terror plans
James Goldsack
James Goldsack tional co-operation will lead to sus-
pect individuals, including those in
transit between flights, to be subject
to additional checks against the watch
list 24 hours before boarding a flight
to, or via, the UK.
The new measures would ensure
that individuals “posing the greatest
risk” could not travel to the UK, while
terrorist movements would be “seam-
lessly tracked and disrupted” said
Gordon Brown.
Mr Brown, who said he had dis-
cussed the measures with US Presi-
dent Barack Obama on Tuesday, also
announced that the controversial new
full body scanners will be introduced
in airports across the UK next week.
The Conservative Party welcomed
the new measures and the introduc-
tion of a “no-fly list” but went further,
calling for a specialist border police
force to ensure higher levels of secu-
rity are reached. Conservative leader
David Cameron said that the man re-
sponsible for attempting to detonate
the Christmas Day bomb was radi-
calised in the UK before travelling to
Yemen.
The concerns surrounding Yemeni
links to terrorism led the Foreign Of-
fice to announce on Wednesday that
all UK flights to Yemen would be sus-
pended. The Nigerian man arrested
for the attempted bombing on Christ-
mas Day told officials that he was giv-
en the device by al-Qaeda operatives
in Yemen and Gordon Brown claimed
there was evidence of links between
Yemeni groups and al-Qaeda.
The Prime Minister said the UK
would give Yemen £100m in finan-
cial support this year to endeavour to
counter radicalisation.
He said that UK aviation officials
were currently in Yemen to dis-
cuss improving aviation security in
the country and hoped that flights
between the two countries would
resume as soon as possible.
The new plans announced by Gordon Brown focus on airport security
Politics Editor

