JJ are a little known Swedish band who released a little known album called
No. 2 last year. Despite getting an 8.6 rating on Pitchfork, it somehow evaded
almost every other music publication. It is pure ambient pop loveliness with
influences from tropicalia to gangsta rap. One of their songs is a slowed down
dreamy cover of Lil Wayne’s “lollipop” with the lyrics changed to an ode to
MDMA. JJ are a bit of a mystery; they never play live, and you won’t find a
single picture of them on Google. Pretty much everyone I’ve played this album
to thinks it sucks, but I stand by its strength as bringing the sound of ‘90s twee
indie pop into the future. This is a slap in the face of anyone who thinks pop
music is all un-original mass produced noise pollution.
14 felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
MUSIC
Music Editors:
Music Editors: Alexandra Ashford, Kadhim Shubber & Luke Turner
Alexandra Ashford, Kadhim Shubber & Luke Turner
Online Editor: Christopher Walmsley
Online Editor: Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com www.felixmusic.tk
The felix office’s own
Sound of 2010
Never mind what the BBC, Mixmag, or Kerrang thinks, here’s
what we like the sound of this year and think has been overlooked
by most of the music press.
Alex Ashford’s choice JJ
The Strange Boys are a garage rock band from the musical mecca that is Austin,
Texas. Formed in 2001, they released a series of EPs before finally recording
their debut 2009 album “The Strange Boys and Girls Club” with the recently
deceased Jay Reatard. I can’t really claim to know whether they’ll be huge or
not, but their timeless guitar melodies and strained, to point of breaking, vocals
come together to form the kind of Southern drawl rock that you’d want to hear
on a road trip through the Deep South. A few tracks and harmonica solos into
their latest album “Be Brave” and I was hooked. They’ve signed to Rough Trade
for their second album so perhaps at least a few people will be talking about this
band in the coming months.
Kadhim Shubber’s choice The Strange Boys
Inexplicable in a way that will blow your mind, if you thought music now is ge-
neric, think again. Meeting at art school in Edinburgh, this Scottish four-piece
are drawing huge attention to themselves. Trying to describe Django Django’s
sound is an art, even in their own words, the music is, “The triple distilled es-
sence (and sensibility) of an artistic huddle of mischievous musicals”. How I see
it, the lack of words to summarize what these wild tribesmen do is a compli-
ment to their creativity. I would say that it is a nonsense mix of instruments and
electronics intertwined, a primeval tendency to beat inanimate objects and the
flare of red-indian chanting vocals. It is safe to say that they are far from aver-
age, which is what I hope the music of 2010 will be.
Luke Turner’s choice Django Django
In 2010, King Charles will bridge the gap between the indie-pop movement of
2007 and the folk movement of 2009. After a year of sing-alongs and waving
lighters, the devout fans of Mumford & Sons and Fleet Foxes will probably ap-
preciate the jump-start to their legs as they itch for a dance.
He’s a showman with a guitar and he has an abiding penchant for any kind
of music that he can make glorious noise with, from cappella operatics to sea
shanties.
With only one E.P. to his name so far, his imposing hair and noble title will
probably be moving upwards on this year’s festival bills after performing on
Glastonbury 2009’s ‘Introducing’ stage.
I reckon he’ll make some noise this coming year, how loud I’m not sure.
Dan Wan’s choice King Charles
I’m excited. As the information and technology age expands, there is simply more and more of everything and more and
more of everything mixed together. You want music that’s a hypnotic mix of dubstep, old school house, and UK garage
by a guy named after an American songwritting legend? You got it, Joy Orbison is there. You want pop singers who
dress like robotic disco balls from the future and carry teacups around? You got it, Lady GaGa. You name the blend of
musical elements and you will find it. Sadly this also means even more of I’m-literally-just-waiting-to-die-because-I’m-
too-boring-to-kill-myself burblings and croonings of Michael Buble and the X-Pop-Talent-Factor battery hens. Maybe
in 2010 we can look forward to hearing Hannah Montana feat. Hadouken! remixed by Major Lazer. I can only dream.
Your Sound of 2010
We asked people who’ve written for us in
the past to tell us what they think should
be looked out for this year.
This lo-fi, chilled out, glitchy electronic
dance-pop is just the kind of music you
can float along to without caring about
the rest of the world. The dreamy vo-
cals sooth your soul and the languid
guitar solos have a relaxing quality. Al-
ready held in high regard by Pitchfork
and currently doing his first UK tour;
don’t let the fact that he needs a good
shower detract from the quality of the
music. – Tom Jennings
Memory Tapes
This band are of the ‘supergroup’ varie-
ty, containing producer-extraordinaire
Dangermouse and James Mercer of
indiepop group The Shins. Danger-
mouse is most famous for combining
Jay-Z and The Beatles on The Black
Album, being one half of music duos
Gnarls Barkley and DANGERDOOM,
as well as producing albums for Beck
and Gorillaz. Their debut album is
due in March and they promise to be a
melancholic and psychedelic pop mix.
– Tom Jennings
Broken Bells
With their second album Stolen Magic
due in March, Rolo Tomassi will be ex-
ploding more minds than ever. Possibly
the most entrancing live performance
in the history of the world, the god-
dess that is Eve Spence will turn even
the most dull brained popster into a
raving fan of the insanity that is math-
core. These Sheffield kids’ fragmented
and synthed-up sound is a kick in the
face to everything you believed about
music. And by God is it time. – Kate
Smith
Rolo Tomassi
Prog. rockers Antlered Man, mix wist-
ful melodies and heavy guitar riffs with
delightful ingenuity, producing fresh
and dynamic material. The lead vocals,
strained and emotive, are enhanced by
the softer backup, further enriching
the sound. Although still unsigned and
without a debut, these guys are sure for
success for the simple fact that their
music is fascinating and unlike any-
thing that was on the market in 2009.
– Kate Smith
Antlered Man
After the massive success of Tik Tok
in 2009, her debut album Animal is
sure to be a massive hit. The next two
singles, Blah Blah Blah (ft. 3oh3!) and
Your Love Is My Drug, are amazingly
catchy pop tunes, and with her person-
al links to Britney and Flo-Rida, she’s
sure to be an artist to watch. – Mat-
thew Stringer
Ke$ha
OK, so you’ve heard about Glee, it’s a
TV show, not an artist, BUT: here’s the
link.
The songs from Glee are SO incred-
ible that they’ve been all over the US
chart, and 4 Glee songs will chart in
the top 30 this week in the UK. With
covers of Rihanna, Jordin Sparks, The
Rolling Stones, Journey, Kanye and
many more, the Glee kids are trans-
forming classic songs from chart his-
tory, and making them a hell of a lot
better.
So watch Glee on E4 on Mondays,
and watch their songs climb the charts
in 2010. – Matthew Stringer
Glee Cast
Yup, that’s right, she’s back, and big-
ger and better than ever. The first
single Louboutins is an RnB/Pop clas-
sic if ever I’ve heard one. – Matthew
Stringer
Jennifer Lopez
Memory Tapes album artwork. I think it’s pretty.

