15
felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk MUSIC
They’ll be back in London this weekend though. Dan Wan chats to Brian Lane about Wembley, vinyl and getting old.
Brand New kicking back on Long Island
A
s Brand New prepare for
another stretch on the
trans-globalroadtheyhave
become well-accustomed
to in recent years, felix catches up
with drummer Brian Lane at home
in Long Island, New York. Home is
clearly where the heart is for Brand
New, but their first stop is London,
a city they’ve found themselves in
countless times. This weekend will
be a little different though as they
perform at Wembley Arena, the big-
gest venue they’ve played in the UK
since starting out ten years ago.
Dan- How are you feeling about the
reception that Daisy has received so
far?
Brian- I mean it’s been pretty good.
We’ve basically been on tour since it’s
been out and we’ve been off for about a
month and things have kind of cooled
down because of holiday season and
stuff. We’re kind of all just enjoying life
here, hanging out at home for a month
or two. We haven’t been to England
since it’s been out have we?
D- No, I don’t think you have yet.
B- Yeah, so I’m excited to find out what
the reception’s like in England, we’ve
just been touring around America for
a while.
D- How much of the media do you
read once you’ve released material,
around the world, obviously being
on tour, do you read the local media?
B- I try not to read about the band or
the album at all. Sometimes my mom
and my friends send me stuff, other-
wise I don’t really pay it much atten-
tion... I try not to. People’s reactions to
the latest record are kind of the same as
our reaction to the record the first few
times we heard it. It kind of settles in
and you take it for what it is, you know.
D- Absolutely. You’re coming to
Britain for the first leg of your trav-
els. When are you guys arriving in
London?
B- I think we get there Thursday and
we leave Sunday... We’re just coming
for the weekend because we have a
bunch of make-up shows we got to do
back in the States before. So we’re go-
ing to do that and we’re talking about
coming back maybe sometime over the
summer but nothing’s concrete yet.
D- Are you going to head straight
back home after the weekend in Lon-
don then?
B- Yeah, we come back home for like
two days and then we have to head out
west to do a few shows where we got
sick on the last tour that we have to
make up for.
D- Wembley Arena is a much larger
venue than most British audiences
are use to seeing you in, have you got
anything special lined up for that?
B- We ended up our last tour in Amer-
ica with our first arena headline, in
America, over here in our hometown,
and we just added a tonne of produc-
tion to it. We’re going to see what
happens and kind of play it by ear but
we’re going do the same kind of show
and the same kind of production we
did here, so we’re hoping people like it.
It’s kind of a daunting thing to go to a
venue like that, we’re kind of new to it
so we’re feeling it out.
D- As a drummer do you prefer the
smaller intimate venues or do you
prefer the larger venues, or is there
any difference?
B- There’s definitely a difference, it’s
kind of a love-hate thing. I enjoy eve-
rything. I enjoy the smaller clubs a lot
more but at the same time it’s good
to play the bigger ones sometimes.
This year we’re going to try and split
it up and maybe do a tour of a bunch
of smaller venues all around the world
also, and then try and do the bigger
ones, so it’s the best of both worlds.
D- Do you consider coming to Wem-
bley and playing an arena hitting
your peak over here in the UK?
B- Maybe, we’ll see, I’m not really sure
how it’s selling and how it’s doing
so...
D- I think it’s all
sold out.
B- Is it? No matter what, playing a
venue like Wembley in general is
something I never really thought I’d be
doing so it’s definitely a highlight of all
our time playing in a band.
D- Have you always been quite confi-
dent about your popularity over here
in the UK?
B- I think when we go over there we all
feel like the kids get it a lot more over
there than anywhere else. We enjoy
playing there a lot more than playing
anywhere else for sure... If we’re confi-
dent about it I don’t know, but we like
it more.
D- I don’t know if it’s the same deal
with America but over here your au-
diences are effectively growing up
with you guys as a band, does it make
you proud that the young teenagers
that came to see you in 2003 when
Deja Entendu was out, are still at-
tending your gigs in 2010 as young
adults now.
B- Yeah, that’s something that I think
we all appreciate a lot and something
that we’ve noticed, touring on this
record more than any-
thing that there are
kids that are 16-17 but there’s also
adults that are our age at this point and
I think that that’s something we can all
relate to and something that’s pretty
rad. I think we’re all stoked on that.
D- Does that mean you’ll never out-
age your audience?
B- I hope, we’ll see. I mean, so far we’ve
lucked out with it.
D- So you don’t think there’s going
to be a point when you guys are go-
ing to think ‘Oh man, we’re way too
old to be relating to the audiences
now’ – and in time give up?
B- Nah, we never look at it that way.
We make music however we want
to make music and since we’ve been
growing up we’re just making the kind
of music we have just because we’re
growing up and that’s what it is, and
we hope that people can relate to it be-
cause of that, you know.
D- It’s a sort of natural progression
with your music and whoever you re-
late to is whoever you relate to?
B- I think that’s a big key, there’s noth-
ing forced with it, it just is what it is
and hopefully kids pick up on that... or
adults.
D- So you guys founded your own
record label, Procrastinate! Music
Traitors! in 2008, what’s the think-
ing behind that? Are you setting up
life after Brand New?
B- It’s nothing we started to make
money off of or anything, it’s just kind
of a name that we use; we can put on
records if we want to help our friends
out or if we decide to put our own stuff
out, we’re releasing our own vinyl on
the label in March, or just for the fu-
ture in general. If any of us want to put
our own projects, we have something
to do it on. There’s no other intentions
with it whatsoever right now. There’s
no plan to release a lot of records or
anything like that, it’s just for our use,
with whatever we want we can slap a
label on it and see what happens.
D- Are you aware of the other mean-
ings of the acronym PMT?
B- No!? What is it?
D- I’ll let you figure it out for yourself
afterwards! You released the track
‘Fork and Knife’ as a download-only
single after your third album, Devil
and the God are Raging Inside Me.
Is the label going to be fronting any-
more of those kind of releases?
B- Maybe, at this point everything is
up in the air, we’re going to see. We
don’t know where our home is going to
be in a few months and we don’t know
if we’re ever going to release a record
again because if it’s something where
we’re doing our own thing I don’t know
if people even care about records any-
more, because the physical part of hav-
ing a record has lost its appeal, it’s not
that cool to us anymore. If we’re going
to be releasing digitally I have no prob-
lem with releasing 3 songs a week or
1 song a week because i feel like that
suits what’s going on now.
D- A lot of people argue buying a
record isn’t just about the music, it’s
about the whole package: the art-
work and leaflet for example. Are
you worried that it’s going to become
nostalgic to a point where you’re go-
ing to be looking back at physical
records and CDs?
B- I think there’s something to say
about having limited edition things
also, it’s special when bands release
2000 and something, or whatever it is
and I think we’re always going to be
doing that because we’re still into that,
we’re still into the physical aspect of
music and artwork and I think we’re
always going to be into it. It’s almost
as big a part of putting out a record as
the music is, so it would be a shame
if we didn’t release anything physi-
cal. I’m sure we will, I’m just not sure
if it’s going to be on the grand scale of
a whole record with packaging, maybe
we’ll do 7” here or maybe we’ll release
a CD single here or something like that
and not press ‘x amount’ just make it a
special thing, I think that’s what we’re
gearing towards more.
A decade and counting
Brand New are an alternative band hailing from Long Island, New York that formed in 2000. Signed up
to Triple Crown Records in 2001, they released their debut album, Your Favourite Weapon. For their
second studio album Deja Entendu, with Interscope Records, there was a stylistic change for the band
to post-hardcore and the album was a huge critical success. In 2008 the band founded their own record
label ‘Procrastinate! Music Traitors’, on which they co-release their current records.

