TRAVEL
Travel Editors
Travel Editors Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
‘Nomadic’ Matt Kepnes
A.k.a. Nomadic Matt, travel blogger and social media expert
by
byDylanLowe
DylanLowe
Interview with the Extraordinaire
Travel Editor
DylanLowe
DylanLowe
The Ramblin’
Rucksack Man
G
’day. Hope you’ve had a
stress-free Christmas, not
too pissed off with snow-
related travel disruptions
and what-have-you. And
happy new decade to you all - may the
following tens years be filled with travel
joys and enlightenments.
And so here I am, your resident drifter
reporting for duty. Great to be back from
a wee semester at the University of Life on
the road and further my education with
the musing of the felix team. Well, if they
would turn off the webcams and quit
pondering about contraceptive sheaths.
Speaking of which, when I first started
as travel editor around this time last year
I was very much aware that, unlike my
peers and co-workers here in the base-
ment, I had very much been an epitome
of technophobia. As though my sole pur-
poses in life were to gallivant and scrib-
ble, it took Jovan weeks - months even
- to hammer knowledge of InDesign
functionalities into my perfectly organic
head. And what was that you were talk-
ing about, Richard Lai, about twitter and
gadgets and social networking? Jibberish.
And who said I’d need to mingle with
fellow travellers online, consult travel
blogs for advice and preview a hostel with
a review? No thanks, a Lonely Planet and
rucksack will suffice.
Little did I then realise how embroiled
I have been in the world of social media
since becoming involved in the STA
Travel Explorer Programme.
As part of their social media campaign,
the legendary travel agency created the
programme to bring together its custom-
ers who would share their travel experi-
ences through blogging, photo-sharing
and video-hosting.
Sulking in the bleak winter - and im-
mense boredom that were the outskirts
of Auckland - I was once again dreaming
of the mid-July heat I’d have been soaking
up in the northern hemisphere. My trip
to Fiji, at the time, remained distant in fu-
ture tense. Catching the STA Travelbuzz
website (http://www.statravelbuzz.co.uk)
flickering across the monitor, reading
stories written by other explorers and
bearing in mind that I ought to establish
a somewhat travel-journal-keeping habit
through blogging, I was tempted into
signing up for the programme.
Almost immediately, across 11 time
zones, the charming Camilla and the
STA Travelbuzz team recruited and wel-
comed me onboard with open arms.
Followedweretheself-propelledtutori-
als on social media and the online tools it
entails. Disregarding my old conceptions
twitter and flickr - both I had conde-
scendingly shunned like a plane passen-
ger would shun a Nigerian - were within
my grasp, as I willed them to promote my
blog, generate readership and spread the
word about my experiences in the South
Pacific, as the guys had instructed.
Not that I was totally unprepared for
this change of lifestyle - I’ve kept my Fa-
cebook account mainly to stay connected
with the amazing characters I’ve met
along my travels.
I was adjusting to hearing tales of in-
credible human feats on a daily basis. I
learnt to appreciate the partnership in-
tegrating travel and social media, with
examples no less real than my experience
on Tribewanted: Vorovoro. I met fellow
travellers not only in hostel lounges but
also in the comfort of my home, whose
experiences are of no less validity only
because our encounter took place in the
virtual world.
Through twitter I arranged a meet-
ing with Matt Kepnes, more commonly
known as Nomadic Matt, in a pub oppo-
site Victoria Station - the American was
in transit, on his way back to Thailand
from Belgium. The same site enabled
Paul Smith, the Twitchhiker as he likes
to be known as, to travel from Newcastle
to New Zealand entirely reliant upon the
generosity of fellow ‘tweeple’.
And so that was me, consuming mates’
hospitality and weeping to Michael
McIntyre for the thousandth time aside,
either drowning in social media debauch-
ery or in my own vomit (hope you’ve had
a great New Years Eve as well) through-
out the holiday.
All thanks to the STA Travelbuzz
team who, to both my amusement and
annoyance, decided to grant me the
pseudonym Ramblin’ Rucksack Man.
Yup, laugh on.
But is it too much? Can social media
become an obsession, lure its audience
into the convenience and sense of safety
and further detach them from reality?
Why am I tolerating the deprivation of
thrill, the adrenaline-clenching moments
and unpredictability that I look forward
to the most during my travels?
As I launch my new travel website,
TheTravellingEditor.com, this coming
Saturday. I must ask myself: have I gone
too far? Have I plunged into the cradle of
intelligence without protecting my ethics
as a traveller?
Fuck this - I need to get out more.
S
imply put, one simply cannot
be a travel social networker
when he’s never heard of No-
madic Matt. What made his
deeds remarkable - to the ex-
tent that The New York Times requested
an interview with him - wasn’t just his
casting-aside of a steady career to em-
bark on a nomadic lifestyle, one that has
to-date lasted for three years. It was that
the Bostonian is now generating enough
income through running his travel blogs
and other online ventures that he needed
no other sources of revenue to fund his
travels.
Now, the man who has brought tips
on budgetting and long-term travel now
sat before Camilla and I; over a pint in
Shakespeare the travel talk commenced.
Dylan Lowe Hi guys. We have the leg-
endary Nomadic Matt among us.
Matt Kepnes Great to be here.
DL Can I just say how much I admire
what you’ve been doing. Truly in-
spiring - it’s inspired me for sure.
MK Thank you.
DL So, what prompted you to quit
your job and embark on a nomadic
lifestyle?
MK I took a trip back in 2005 to Thai-
land. I met some backpackers then and I
was fascinated with what they were do-
ing. I wanted to do that. It seemed a lot
of fun so I finished my MBA, quit my
job. I spent another 18 months travel-
ling and decided to continue travelling - I
haven’t stopped ever since. All my life, the
best decisions are made with the gut! It’s
worked out since.
DL You are the epitome of a social
media guru. But how important, in
your opinion, is social media in the
world of travel?
MK Social media is very important.
Twitter, Facebook, my blog, all allow me
to get travel tips and advice to places I am
going, meet locals, and meet other trav-
ellers. Without social media, travelling
wouldn’t be as fun. It helps you connect
with people a lot more.
DL What are your predictions for
technology in conjunction with
travel?
MK More people will use devices like
their iPhone to get real-life travel infor-
mation and facts while they are on the
road.
DL Many people would have accused
you for running away from reality -
how do you respond to that?
MK To say that is ridiculous. We travel
not to run away from life, or from reality
- in fact we’re running towards it. Cul-
tures, places, people, they define life, not
the office cubicle, marriage or children.
And the freedom - it’s the same freedom
I found in the travellers I met in Thai-
land that inspired me to travel in the first
place.
DL Any spark of romance along your
journey?
MK Lots of little romances.
DL If you have one secret craving
for some kind of stable living, what
would it be?
MK A steady girlfriend.
DL Thought so. The traveller’s curse.
Why don’t you stop travelling and
live that dream?
MK Because I’d much rather find the
one, travel, and live the dream together.
DL What would you say to aspiring
travel writers/bloggers hoping to do
something similar to what you do?
MK Network. Get your blog up and run-
ning, write stuff, and network with eve-
rybody and anybody in order to get your
name out there. Keep networking. It’s
going to take a lot of time before you get
noticed but if you are persistent you will.
Have I gone too far? Send me your views to travel.felix@ic.ac.uk
Check out Matt’s site @ http://www.nomadicmatt.com
follow me @TravelingEditor or visit my travel blog
at http://www.thetravellingeditor.com
STA Travelbuzz
http://www.statravelbuzz.co.uk
Matador Network
http://www.matadornetwork.com
Conglomerate of UK travel bloggers,
from £10 Poms to the Mankini Chal-
lenge. Oh yeah, and the rucksack guy
Recommended: Online travel communities
Traveller’s online community, uber-
useful resources written by paid profes-
sional travel writers and entrepreneurs
Lonely Planet
http://www.lonelyplanet.com
Tag your blog tweets with #lp; the edi-
tors at Lonely Planet will re-publish
your post on their reputed website

