26 felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FEATURE
Imperial Snowsports hit Arc 1800
S
etting off for the slopes on 2nd
January, Imperial Snowsports
had only just recovered from
New Years Eve, and the pros-
pect of a 16 hour coach journey to the
Alps was pretty daunting. Snow re-
ports had told us that it was going to be
bloody freezing all week, so after a last
minute trip to High St. Ken’ for extra
thermals, we were on our way!
Luckily for most of us, the coach
journey flew by, which could have
had something to do with the copi-
ous amounts of port and whiskey con-
sumed on the ferry. After a pretty un-
eventful journey (except for the usual
nakedness, megaphones and puking
- we all know who’s responsible), we
arrived at Arc 1800 mid-afternoon,
grabbed our ski’s from the hire shop
and - in true Snowsports style - started
drinking, again.
I have to say, the way the trip was go-
ing by this point, I felt like I was in for
a bit of a festival experience - partying
so hard that I didn’t actually do what I
set out to do, which was to snowboard
every day. Yet, as we were comatose in
our beds after the first night out, the
heavens opened and gave us an extra
50cm of snow. Waking up in the morn-
ing to so much snow, and snow still
coming down, was enough to rid us
all of our hangovers, and so we were
out on the slopes! I seemed to be one
of the only committee members for
whom Imperial ski trip was my first
week on snow of the season, and the
boys weren’t going to let me ease my-
self into it. The first morning meant
some serious off-piste powder riding
and some steep, powdery black runs,
which meant a lot of falling and walk-
ing for me!
Les Arcs is actually a huge ski resort,
and with the recent addition of the lift
connection to La Plagne, a neighbour-
ing resort, the ski area is one of the
biggest in the world, with pistes avail-
able to all ski levels. But with the fresh
dump of powder on the first night, the
pistes were not what we were inter-
ested in. Following the rest of the com-
mittee, with a few extras, I was slightly
out of my depth in skill level, which I
realised when I ended up headfirst in
the snow, with two other snowboard-
ers running to pull me out.
You would have thought that, after
playing in the powder all day, we’d all
be far too tired to have another night
out. But there’s no rest for the wicked,
and we were back on the lash again -
and dressing up, cartoon characters
theme. My favourite outfit was a cer-
tain Banana-in-Pyjamas, and some
people went to a lot of effort; from all-
THIS WEEK, CHARLOTTE MORRIS REPORTS ON THIS YEARS JANUARY SKI TRIP ORGANISED BY THE
IMPERIAL SNOWSPORTS SOCIETY.
in-one baby-grows (Rugrats) to dying
people’s hair purple to look like Leela
from Futurama.
The next couple of days were perfect
skiing conditions, bright blue skies and
excellent snow underfoot. We made
the most of exploring the resort, which
had plenty to offer. My favourite part
of Les Arcs was in Arc 2000; you could
take a gondola up and then a cable car
right to the top of the mountain. Be-
cause the weather was so good, the
views from the top were amazing. And
the ski down to Arc 1600 was just as
amazing; one long run, with a mixture
So if you haven’t managed to get your
fix of snow this season so far, come
with us to BUSC’s Main Event 2010,
which takes place at Alpe d’Huez
during the Easter holidays.
of terrains, from moguls to freshly
groomed, wide-open runs, with no lift
stops all the way to the bottom.
The highlight of my evenings has to
be the Mountain Meal. For those of
you who have never been on an Impe-
rial ski trip, a Mountain Meal is where,
at the end of a day’s skiing, we met at a
restaurant at the top of the mountain.
We were given a bottle of wine each
and ate a very filling meal of cheese
raclette, a traditional Savoie dish con-
sisting of lots of cheese, with a plate
of meat (or salad for the vegetarians),
potatoes and pickled onions. Cheese
Our holiday in pictures...
raclette consists of a wheel of Reblo-
chon cheese, cut in half and placed
under a grill. You then scrape off the
layers of melted cheese and add it to
your plate. It’s a very social way to eat,
and after a bottle of red wine each, we
were all a little bit tipsy. So when the DJ
(a greying, old frenchman) kicked off
the disco by playing Daft Punk, it was
only a matter of time before we were all
dancing on the tables in our ski boots.
Dangerous, you might ask? Not as
dangerous as the ‘torchlit descent’ af-
terwards, which involved us all skiing
down to the village, in the dark, only
lit by a few people who had lanterns of
fire. Luckily for me, I managed to get
down without falling, only stopping to
light the way for a group of people who
had managed to get themselves tangled
in the orange safety fencing at the side
of the piste.
With the snow conditions deterio-
rating after the first dump of snow at
the start of the week, it came as a bit
of a relief that the last day meant more
snow. Unfortunately for many people,
after the crazy night the night before (it
was our last night in the resort - what
can I say?) there wasn’t a lot of skiing
to be done, and a lot more loitering
around bars in the village, eating pizza
and kebabs all day.
What impressed me the most about
this year’s ski trip was how willing eve-
rybody was to get involved. The more
advanced skiers and snowboarders
were happy to teach the less confident
ones, the freestyle experts were giv-
ing tips in the park and people offered
to wax skis and snowboards and lend
each other kit when they needed it.
This led to such a friendly atmosphere
within the group, which in turn, led to
lots of fun skiing during the day and
some brilliant nights out!

