28 felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Drop us a message at
Drop us a message at felixonline.co.uk
felixonline.co.uk
Drunken-mate photo of the week
xkcd.com
It’s comforting to see a new level of responsibility in the drunks of today. He
also had a first-aid kit and money for a taxi (or bail) secreted about his person.
Got a picture of
your mate being
an absolute waste
of oxygen? Well,
get your camera
out and email your
drunken-mate
photos to catnip.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
Snow:WinterWonder
or Wicked Whiteout?
It was fun to start with but now it’s seriously pissing me off!!!
Frosty and Frustrated
It was great! I made a girlfriend out of it - not sad at all. But
now she’s turned into a real drip. I think I’ll dump her soon.
Totally Not Sad Computing Student
What snow?! I had the greenest christmas in years and I get
back to london and it’s all gone! What a rip-off!
White Christmas?
Why did it have mess with all the transport? It took me 4
days to get home!!! 4 days in St. Pancras sleeping on my dirty
washing!
Chilly Commuter
I like the snow. It makes it harder for them to find the bodies.
Well-Adjusted Medic
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
SEND US YOUR BEST (OR WORST) SCIENCE JOKES!
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text:07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
1) It’s Fun! At least more fun than Friday afternoon lectures.
2) Your Name in Lights! Well, ink, really. But it’s still
something to show your mum.
3) Girls! It‘s well-known that women love writers. Fact!
4) Boys! Guys like girls who know their way around a pencil.
5) Get Involved! Writing to the Student Newspaper is
guaranteed to help pad out that CV.
6) Get Even! Were you the “Drunk Mate of the Week?” Take
your friends out to the Union with a camera and a funnel.
7) Get It Out! Bad Lecture? Bad Day? Bad Week?! Vent your
frustrations here – we’re cheaper than any therapist.
8) For The Cat! felix can only continue on your contributions
so remember to feed the cat.
9) For A Laugh! Texting Cat-Nip with your mate’s phone that
you just nicked could be the new Frape. Cat-Rape today!
10) Please? See, I even asked nicely.
Ten Reasons To Get In
Touch With Catnip

