S
hockwaves of anger and relief
reverberated across the world
on Christmas Day 2009 on the
news of Umar Farouk Abdul-
mutallab’s failed bombing of
Northwest Airlines Flight 253, en route
from Amsterdam to Detroit.
As news reports covered Boxing Day’s press,
it was revealed that he was an Engineering
graduate of University College London (UCL),
and during his time there, became President
of the university’s Islamic Society.
Abdulmutallab became the fourth Islamic
Society President in London to be arrested
in four years, and with this latest case being
so high-profile, it is only inevitable that stu-
dent Islamic societies are increasingly sub-
ject to the media’s magnifying glass.
*
TERRORISM AT IMPERIAL?
Imperial is one of the closest universities to
UCL, both academically and geographically,
and in 2005 was listed by the Guardian as
one of the many UK universities that had
extremist groups operating within its ranks.
This came after Babar Ahmed, a member
of College IT staff was accused of having de-
tailed plans for attacking a US warship on
his personal computer. Ahmed was arrested
in 2004 and remains behind bars without a
conviction to this day; he currently stands
as the longest detained-without-trial British
citizen whilst fighting a court case to pre-
vent his extradition to the USA.
*
THE ‘IRRESPONSIBLE’ MEDIA
In light of recent events, felix spoke to Is-
lamic Society President, Salman Butt, and
asked him how the media’s attention on
student Islamic societies has changed his
experience as the leader of what he believes
a peaceful and open society.
He is seemingly most perturbed by how
the ‘irresponsible’ national media are por-
traying student societies like his, and what
impression that gives to the public.
“Islamic Society at Imperial is very differ-
ent to the media’s impression of us, that it is
a breeding ground for terrorism and there’s
strange things going on. But if you have a
close look at any Islamic society at any uni-
versity, you’ll find they’re just normal people
as such and they’re not up to any mischief.”
He is very understanding of the situation
he finds himself in, but realises the potential
detriments it might bring the society.
“Its quite funny but when you think about
it, if that’s the only exposure people are get-
ting, people get scared. The sad thing is par-
ents might tell their children not to come to
us and not get involved. That just leads to
them being loners and not being incorpo-
rated into the community at Imperial.”
*
IMPARTIAL IMPERIAL
The week after Abdulmutallab’s failed bomb
attempt, Anthony Glees, Professor of Secu-
rity and Intelligence studies at the University
of Buckingham was quoted as saying that “all
British universities must look at their Islamic
Societies and demand assurances that no
radicalisation will be allowed. If they can’t give
those assurances, they should be disbanded.”
After hearing the argument, Butt takes
time to consider his immediate thoughts,
and is eventually inconclusive. Demanding
assurances that nothing questionable is go-
ing on within a society is not as clear-cut as
Professor Glees demands.
“I find it difficult to prove that someone
isn’t breeding radicalisation, because how
can you prove something doesn’t exist, how
can you assure someone that nothing is hap-
pening? You have to show something is hap-
pening as the opposite, or otherwise?”
We move onto matters closer to home, and I
ask how he’d deal with members of the society
that harboured views that wouldn’t hold well
in the public eye. I get the impression that he
has encountered such perspectives, but they
are not ones that he particularly shares.
When I ask him if he thinks that extremist
views are flying under his radar, and hence
also the College’s, he states that he sees the
Islamic Society as place for dialogue and a
source of advice. He feels that it is not his, or
the society’s, place to shut anyone’s mouth by
force, including one that may be spitting nails.
“I don’t condemn people for having certain
views or opinions, but if there were radical
opinions like that, we would discuss them.”
Even though Imperial College Union have
little in the way of a political agenda, free-
speech is traditionally important for stu-
dents’ political weight in society. Butt rec-
ognizes this and reiterates his standpoint.
“That is what university is about, we can’t
just force these people to hide their views
and go underground; everyone has an opin-
ion. It’s not a sin or anything to have one
opinion,” he says. He makes the point that it
is not a matter of wrong or right, but differ-
ence in opinion. I feel he’d make an excellent
politician, and there is something to admire
as he avoids demonizing people with ex-
tremist views, just like the British press have
done, but never gives the impression that he
agrees with these views either. It is almost
like he is caught in two minds over defend-
ing his fellow Muslims and condemning
their views and actions, which are deemed
widely unacceptable to have. However, he
strikes a fine balance in doing both.
He states, “There’s no reason why we should
harbour any ill feelings towards anyone that
doesn’t agree with us on certain issues. Every-
one should have the right to have an opinion
on certain atrocities that have happened, as
long as they don’t break the law doing it. That’s
a whole different kettle of fish.”
His open-mindedness is not something he
feels national authorities are appreciating.
As he talks, he is obviously frustrated by the
fact that national authorities, the media and
hence the public are taking a such a heavy
hand in their dealings with suspicious stu-
dent societies. To prove a point, he likens
the Islamic society to any other society at
Imperial on several occasions, and you can
see why he does it. The term ‘Islamic soci-
ety’ carries an unfavourable stigma, and re-
placing the description ‘Islamic’ with some-
thing like ‘knitting’ serves the argument
extremely well.
“Someone could use an Islamic society, or
even a baking or knitting society to promote
any agenda,” he jovially answers when I ask
him if extremists are using student societies
as platforms for promoting dangerous beliefs.
*
UNDER THE MAGNIFYING GLASS
“People in Islamic societies are now those
who get the finger pointed at them in the
media,” he sighs. “A lot of members of Is-
lamic societies may get arrested and get
charged under certain anti-terror rules that
we have in this country, unfortunately. That
doesn’t mean they are actually terrorists or
have committed anything.” The mention of
Babar Ahmed is lingering in the air. He is
quite clearly famous for all the wrong rea-
sons, and his strong connections with Impe-
rial College, the institution we are both sit-
ting within, suddenly gives the conversation
a very realistic twist.
“There are so many people in prison with-
out having a sentence put on them such as
Babar Ahmed, from Imperial. He’s still in
prison and hasn’t been convicted of any-
thing. I know it’s because there’s an atmos-
phere of fear and so on, but when it comes
to Islamic societies there is obviously a lens
which people look at Muslims through.”
The metaphorical idea of a lens which
the public think they have the right to look
at Islam through resonates greatly with me.
There is no reason to distrust an honest man
like Butt, but yet people are inspecting
others just like him a bit too closely. “I
know several people whose houses have
been raided for no reason and haven’t been
charged. They’re just regular people
like you and me.”
Throughout our 40-minute conver-
sation, Butt is eager to push the idea
of criminal activity, not just terrorism,
away from student societies like his at
Imperial. His point is that just because
the guilty party is part of his society does
not mean the society is guilty.
“If you see it from our perspective, the
vilification of Islamic societies harbouring
terrorists is like if someone went to Sains-
bury’s and then accused them of harbouring
terrorism; the link is tenuous. We don’t train
people to go break the law! If someone com-
mits a crime, it’s upon them. They’re also at
Imperial, live in London, shop at a certain
place, are part of a certain mosque and part
of a certain society, it doesn’t mean they’ve
been influenced by all of these things to do
something.”
*
WHO’S RESPONSIBLE?
Many fear that a way student extremists are
influencingotherswiththeirradicalbeliefsis
via the invitation of guest speakers to events
held by student societies. In 2008, Imperial
saw a fiasco unfold as ex-Malaysian Prime
Minister, Mahathir bin Mohamad visited
Imperial on the invitation of Political & Phil-
osophical Society. His controversial opin-
ions as a terrorism-sympathiser sparked off
many security and censorship concerns, and
it ended with a high-up College authority
banning all external media and attendance
from the event twenty minutes before it was
due to commence. UCL have been criticised
by the media for not monitoring their stu-
dents’ activities, namely Abdulmutallab’s,
closely enough, including the guest speakers
he invited as part of a now well-publicised
War on Terror week he helped organise.
Since Mahathir bin Mohamad’s visit, Col-
lege and the Union screen any guest speaker
invited to the university. Students must have
a Guest Speaker Form approved by security
before their event planning can proceed. I
asked Butt what he thought of the protocols
used by College, and the pride of his re-
sponse almost renders it a statement.
“I guess they’re effective. We’ve never had
any problem. Our society’s axiom of every-
thing we do is to prevent any harm before
you attain any benefit. This is something
from Islamic principles that we encourage.
So if there is a speaker that was deemed
controversial, though there might be a ben-
efit bringing him in, regarding freedom of
speech and he may have some good ideas,
4 felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
DAN WAN SPEAKS TO ISLAMIC
SOCIETY’S PRESIDENT, SALMAN BUTT,
ABOUT THE SPOTLIGHT THAT UCL’S
DETROIT BOMBER HAS BROUGHT
NOT WHO
YOU THINK
WE ARE
“...there is obviously
a lens which people
look at Muslims
through.”
Top: Islamic
Society
President,
Salman Butt
says, “The
Friday sermon
is in the Union
Building
(pictured)!
Everything’s
out in the
open. We’re
not having
any secret
gatherings.”
Middle:
Headlines
reporting the
aftermath of
Abdul-
mutallab’s
failed bombing
on 25 Dec
2009
228
members of
Islamic Society
in 2008/09
12
lifetime
memberships
of Islamic
Society bought
in 2008/09

