5
felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk NEWS
Violence erupted at the Union on Fri-
day night after a guest of an Imperial
student was left with a bloody face
after being attacked by a member of
College staff on his last day of work.
Reports from the night suggest the
attack was unprovoked and sudden,
and occurred at around 1.30am as the
Union event wound down.
The situation ended well after clos-
ing time with the attacker being es-
corted into a police car on Prince Con-
sort Road.The confrontation was said
to have risen in dB’s nightclub when
the guest and his group of friends,
whom were all Imperial students, left
the sofa they were at to buy drinks.
Shortly after, the unnamed guest was
approached by a man described to be
in his early thirties wanting to use the
sofa. His immediate behaviour was
described as drunkenly aggressive,
and when he was politely refused per-
mission to use the sofa, he lashed out
with his fists at the guest.
Understandably shocked, the guest
was led out of the Union building as
security started the search for the at-
tacker. After some first-aid treatment
to a several-inch long cut above his
right eyebrow, the guest was inter-
viewed by Union security and stew-
ards. He decided to press charges,
and the police and ambulance were
subsequently called. The victim was
later taken to hospital.
College staff member
attacks student’s
guest at Union
Roger loved standing in doorways alone whilst his friends went drinking
The man arrested has since been
found to be a former member of Col-
lege staff who works in Registry. He
was at the Union celebrating his last
day of work at Imperial.
The College Registry regularly deals
with student welfare matters including
admissions, financial hardships and
examination procedures.
A spokesperson for Imperial stated,
“Imperial regrets to confirm that on
Saturday 16 January at approximately
1am, a former member of staff was al-
legedly involved in a physical assault on
a guest in one of the College’s student
union bars. Union staff and stewards
promptly called an ambulance and the
police and administered first aid to the
victim, who was subsequently treated
in hospital for cuts to the face.
“The incident is now being inves-
tigated by the police, and the College
has no further comment to make at
this stage.”
Dan Wan
Dan Wan Editor-in-Chief
“The situation
ended with the
attacker being
escorted into a
police car on Prince
Consort Road.”
ideas, the controversy that could be caused
is enough for us to raise a flag and so we
wouldn’t invite them. If the speaker is Mus-
lim, they will understand, it is a well known
axiom in our religion.”
Alongside his own judgment, Butt also
believes the healthy relationship he has with
College authorities creates a “really good
balance” at Imperial. He adds, “We’ve got
the freedom to operate but they also have
the safety procedures such as speaker clear-
ance checks by security. Also, we have such
a close relationship with Andrew Willson,
the Chaplain, and Sir Keith O’Nions, the
Rector. We regularly exchange emails. They
do keep an eye out on us but its not spying.
It’s a healthy exchange of information. If no
one knew about us, and we weren’t doing
events, that harbours suspicion.”
Butt also feels the detriment of the public
attention Muslims have received in the past
decade has added another dimension to
Muslim students wanting to live a politically
pro-active life at university.
“Some people might hold political views,
I don’t myself, but we live in a climate that
if Muslim people are interested in politics,
and a non-Muslim person is interested in
politics, they won’t really be seen the same.
For example, if someone disagrees with UK
Foreign Policy, if he’s a Muslim, it’s ques-
tioned,” he says.
*
SAFETY NETS
A thought crosses my mind, and I wander
if he comes across any unprovoked hostility
on campus.
“Not really personally, there’s an odd post
on a forum here and there and you have to
live with that. If you give someone a plat-
form like that, if they have hostile views,
they come forward,” he confesses. My mind
flashes back to Live!, Imperial’s student
news website that allows users to post feed-
back anonymously. What Butt has pointed
out certainly rings true when it comes to the
message board posts relating to the stories
of Babar Ahmed’s arrest in 2004. He does
however, encourage people to report any
“physical or verbal abuse”, especially if they
are not confident enough to report it due
to intimidation. With a cautious smile, pre-
sumably of relief, he adds, “Although thank-
fully Imperial isn’t a place where people
lower themselves to that degree.” Whilst the
media broadly announces that terrorism is
being developed under the safety blanket of
university campuses, as in Abdulmutallab’s
case, Imperial’s campus and community
is Butt’s own safety blanket away from the
public’s spotlight of condemnation. He then
adds, “But then there’s still the surrounding
community.”
“If you see it from
our perspective, the
vilification of Islamic
societies harbouring
terrorists is like if
someone went to
Sainsbury’s then
accused them of
harbouring terrorism;
the link is tenuous.”
Dealing with
controversy
felix quizzes Union President Ashley Brown on the
Union’s policy regarding guest speakers
Standpoint of London’s students
“As a society, we unequivocally and in very clear terms denounce
all acts of terrorism and violence regardless of the perpetrator. It is
important to realise that as long as this expression [of extremism]
does not incite violence or break the law, then it should not only be
permissible but fostered for academic student debate. Never has a
speaker invited by the UCL Islamic Society espoused views on campus
which would incite violence or would have broken the law.”
President of the UCL Islamic Society
“He preaches every other week and is constantly bringing the subject
around the need to establish the Caliphate [Islamic state]. Only last
week he was talking about the Detroit bomber and saying the guy was
not radicalised in London and it was all to do with foreign policy.
Last year he recommended we should attend a conference which I later
discovered was organised by Hizb ut-Tahrir [a government-monitored
hardline Islamic group], but he never mentions the party by name.”
A member of LSE Islamic Society
Regarding Reza Pankhurst, a regular speaker with radical views
Mojeed Adams-Mogaji, on Abdulmutallab and student extremism
How would you come to a decision if a contentious Guest Speaker
Request Form was put on your desk?
Google, consultation with the College secretary and Pro-Rector
(education), or Dean of Students. However, there’s nothing wrong with
students hearing from contentious speakers in fact, university should be a
place where people’sviews are challenged. The issue comes where a speaker
tries to recruit or radicalise.
How do you pre-empt a speaker looking to push his extreme beliefs
on students?
Well, in a lot of cases you can’t tell until they’re here, but there’s not much
you can do about that. Unless you want to ask the security services to give
you a yay or nay, which a bit too close to an authoritarian government for
my liking.
Surely you have to question the motives of the students inviting such
a speaker in the first place?
What if I decided, say, to invite Nick Griffin to speak? Should the
assumption be that I’m a big racist, or that I wanted him somewhere where
he could prove what a complete cock he is? I would, though, expect a
responsible club or society to organise balanced discussions, so if they
wanted someone with a contentious viewpoint, they had someone there
to argue against it too.
Would you not be then concerned that he could get through to even
a tiny percentage of his audience? Even if it was just one person
believing things that would detrimental to society if they were to come
to fruition.
But much like we can tell that Nick Griffin is bad, you can’t tell that about
some extremist people. We could just as easily find that one of our clubs had
invited someone associated with the BNP that no-one had information on.
How would you know? The only way to be absolutely sure is to stop clubs
inviting external speakers or monitor what all of them say which is clearly
ridiculous. What is important is to maintain a good dialogue with clubs who
want to invite speakers who might be considered contentious.
So, what’s the solution?
If you want to keep universities as places where conventional views are
challenged, there isn’t one. Keeping an opening dialogue helps, but things
can always slip through. That’s the insanity with the UCL situation.

