6 felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
The Exhibition Road Project has come
up against a hurdle still standing after
a group of 30 charities are looking to
carry on fighting their case to stop the
removal of pavements on Exhibition
road, creating a shared space for pe-
destrians and traffic.
On Friday they applied for a second
High Court hearing to challenge the
legality of the £25 million plans, which
one of the charities, Guide Dogs,
claims will endanger the safety of visi-
tors, particularly the blind, disabled,
elderly and children. The charities are
hoping to reverse a High Court ruling
made last month that that the appli-
cation for judicial review of the pave-
ment removal project was “premature.”
Guide Dogs claims that the plan is
“dangerous and unlawful.”
The charities serve disabled people
and are concerned about the possible
safety implications of the project, par-
ticularly for these vulnerable groups.
It is not hard to see why some peo-
ple may be concerned about creating
a zone for joint use by both cars and
pedestrians, especially when the areas
attracts more than 11 million visitors
a year. The council has sought to al-
leviate these fears by reminding con-
cerned individuals and groups that the
boundaries of a pedestrian zone would
be clearly marked by a “tactile cordu-
roy delineator” and that traffic will be
Exhibition Road Project opposed by charities
restricted to 20mph. Guide Dogs, in
leading the group of 30 charities in ap-
plying for a second High Court hear-
ing, responded that tactile boundaries
are “untested.”
In December, when interviewed by
felix, Project Leader, Councillor Ni-
cholas Paget-Brown from the Royal
Borough of Kensington and Chelsea ar-
gued the removal of formal pavements
would benefit disabled people.
He said, “the kerb itself is a trip haz-
ard and is not actually an ideal barrier
for people with physical disabilities. So
removing the kerbs can be very helpful.”
He was also certain that guide dogs
would be able to distinguish pedestri-
anised and motorway sections of the
surface, stating, “It is certainly possible
to train guide dogs to recognize a strip
of corduroy paving all away up.”
Tom Pey, from Guide Dogs, said:
“The council has repeatedly ignored
our research and representations from
other organisations, as well as our ‘Say
No to Shared Streets Campaign’ which
is supported by 30 disability groups.”
There is currently academic research
being done on the concept of shared
zones for use by both pedestrians and
traffic. The government has delayed
giving advice on the issue until the
results of that research are published.
An alternative proposal, which has not
received much support, is for Exhibi-
tion Road to be closed to traffic during
periods of heavy pedestrian use, such
as during the day and at weekends.
Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian News Reporter
Artist’s impression of what Exhibition Road will look like come 2012. No guide dogs pictured. COINCIDENCE?!
Imperial College ranks top university for LGBT employment
Imperial College London has been
listed among Stonewall’s Top 100 Em-
ployers 2010 for being one of the top
employers of LGBT (lesbian, gay, bi-
sexual and transgender) people. The
Workplace Equality Index, released
on 13th January, places Imperial at
number 79 ahead of the only other HEI
(higher education institution) in the
list, Liverpool John Moores University,
which follows at 85.
Rector Sir Keith O’Nions welcomed
the news by saying: “Imperial’s great
strength lies in the people who work
here and we can’t afford to let tal-
ent go to waste due to ignorance or
prejudice.” He added: “Making it into
Stonewall’s Index of Top 100 Employ-
ers is a real milestone for us and sends
a strong message that discrimination
based on sexual orientation has no
place on our campuses and will not be
tolerated.” Imperial was one of the first
HEIs to take part in Stonewall’s Diver-
sity Champions Programme which al-
lows employers to work with Stonewall
in promoting equality for LGBT peo-
ple in the workplace.
Since 1989, Stonewall has been a
professional lobby group aimed at pre-
venting the stigmatising and attack of
LGBT people. Over the years, Stone-
wall has successfully campaigned on
numerous fronts which include lifting
the ban on lesbians and gay men serv-
ing in the military, as well as helping to
secure civil partnerships. Stonewall is
part of the Equality and Diversity Fo-
rum which is a group of organisations
with an aim to address and progress
on age, disability, gender, race, reli-
gion and belief, and sexual orientation
issues. In January 2009, Imperial re-
launched the staff advisory group Im-
perial 600 which ensures that all Col-
lege policies afford the same right to
LGBT people as everybody else. Rec-
tor O’Nions pointed out, “My thanks
and congratulations go in particular to
the members of Imperial 600 for lead-
ing the work that has made this suc-
cess possible.”
felix spoke to Chris Darby who is the
President of IQ, the LGBT society at
Joanna Cai
Joanna Cai News Reporter
Imperial. He welcomed the good news
but also stressed that although “this is
fantastic for the staff, there is a long
way to go for the student body”. He
admitted that if there was to be a Top
100 list of LGBT-friendly universities,
Imperial might well not feature.
Unlike the staff advisory group Im-
perial 600 who received a boost in
funds accompanying their relaunch,
as well as increased efforts towards
achieving diversity and equality, the
student LGBT community has seen no
such additional support.
Hostility towards LGBT students at
Imperial remains a problem, and Chris
feels that the diversity that exists at
Imperial is bittersweet. Issues of race,
disability, religion and gender are all
widely accepted as deserving equality
but according to Chris, there remains a
certain “taboo” associated with sexual
orientation.
Nevertheless, Imperial’s place on
the Top 100 Employers list is an offi-
cial indication that Imperial is striving
towards equality for LGBT staff, and
hopefully the recent efforts among the
staff will also be seen within the stu-
dent community.
Please visit www.stonewall.org.uk for
more information on their work. There
is a Graduate Recruitment Guide avail-
able on www.startingoutguide.org.uk
which features organisations that work
alongside Stonewall.
1. IBM
2. Hampshire Constabulary
3. Ernst & Young
4. Brighton & Hove City
Council
5. Goldman Sachs
6. Home Office
7. London Borough of
Tower Hamlets
8. Manchester City Council
9. Kent Police 9 Nacro
11= Environment Agency
for England & Wales
11= London Borough of
Islington
13= Merseyside Police
13= Transport for London
15. Simmons & Simmons
16. Gentoo Group
17= East Sussex County
Council
17= Foreign &
Commonwealth Office
19= Nottinghamshire
Healthcare NHS Trust
19= West Midlands Police
Stonewall’s Top LGBT
Employers

