7
felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
Occae por secturi doluptas et quas
re es dollam, quatem sitaquam
essiminctemenisetmoluptavelectem
nienitiae ventotat et autatione suntis
eum vereped ut plitat anditatibus.
Nia vidunt laboremporem rem qui
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Democrats lose seat
The election of a Republican in Massachusetts shows US public
anger at Obama’s economic and healthcare policies
what we believe in and why.”
Brown’s victory comes on top of de-
cisions by five House Democrats since
November, to retire instead of face po-
tentially tough races later this year, as
well as Democratic losses in the New
Jersey and Virginia gubernatorial races
in that month. The Republicans now
have 41 seats in the Senate, which al-
lows them to filibuster legislation. Cru-
cially, it should allow them to block the
Democrat’s proposed socialisation of
healthcare.
Given the signals that this has sent
about the current political sentiments
of the American people, Brown’s elec-
tion should make it less likely that
moderate Republicans, such as Olym-
pia Snowe, will back the Democrats on
key current issues such as the Demo-
cratic healthcare proposals, which are
being held in the Senate.
It could even encourage some of the
moderate Democrats such as Blanche
Lincoln to vote with the Republicans
on such matters. The Senate Demo-
cratic leadership may now try to force
through the Healthcare Bill before
Scott is seated. However, there is op-
position to that, even from some Dem-
ocrats such as Senator Jim Webb, who
said in a statement that it would be
“fair and prudent” to suspend further
votes on healthcare legislation until
Brown is seated.
Goldman Sachs employees earning
healthy bonuses after strong profits
Goldman Sachs has received much criticism for paying large bonuses even after
being bailed out of bankruptcy by the American taxpayer. But with so many
students here at Imperial thinking of going into investment banking after their
degrees, it might be nice to reflect on how well you can do, even after your firm
and industry fail big time. Below is a list compiled by ABC News of 10 Goldman
employees likely to earn bonuses of more than $10 million this year:
Traders
1 – Pierre-Henri Flamand is a French-born 39-year-old who was rumoured to
have been paid $100 million a few years ago (Goldman denied it). Flamand is
the London-based global head of Goldman’s purely proprietary trading group,
Goldman Sachs Principal Strategies. Goldman CEO Blankfein has said pure
prop trading is only 10 percent of the firm’s trading revenues and profits.
2 – Ashok Varadhan, one of Goldman’s top fixed-income guns, is the global
head of foreign exchange trading in North America. Varadhan, who was made
partner in 2002 at age 29, owns luxury digs in the same New York apartment
building as Blankfein. Varadhan’s dad, Srinivasa, teaches math at New York
University. He had a brother, Gopal, who worked as a trader for Cantor
Fitzgerald and was killed in the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center.
3 – David Heller joined Goldman in Asia in the late 1980s. He has risen within
the firm, becoming the head of global equity a few years ago. Last year, he was
namedco-headoftheSecuritiesDivision.Goldman’sequitiesdivisiondelivered
$2.8 billion in revenues in the third quarter alone. “Heller is possibly the one
person other than Gary [Cohn, Goldman’s president] who could someday
succeed Blankfein,” said one Wall Street headhunter.
4 – Ed Eisler is head of interest rate trading, which is part of Goldman’s most
profitable division, Fixed Income Commodities and Currency. The FICC group
contributedthelion’sshareofthefirm’s$24billionintradingrevenuesrecorded
through the first nine months of the year.
Asset Managers
5 – Raanan Agus, 41-year-old manager of Goldman Sachs Investment Partners,
a $7 billion hedge fund created at the start of 2008. Agus, a world-class chess
enthusiast who is known to prefer Honda minivans to Hummers, runs the GSIP
fund within Goldman’s asset management division, which has nearly $1 trillion
under management. Through the first half of the year, Agus’ GSIP, which had a
rocky 2008, was said to have had gains of around 6 percent.
6 – Marc Spilker, who helps run Goldman’s entire massive investment
management business, recently made the kind of headlines his bosses hate. He
got into a vitriolic public dispute with his East Hampton neighbour, hedge fund
heavyweight Jim Chanos, over a shared pathway to the beach near their homes.
Spilker’s area produces nearly $1 billion in revenues each quarter.
Salespeople
7 – Harvey Schwartz, Goldman’s head of global sales and a co-head of the firm’s
securities division. “People don’t realize how much sales drives Goldman’s
business,” said one Wall Street headhunter. “Harvey is always among the firm’s
best paid people.”
8 – Isabelle Ealet, London-based global head of commodities and who runs
the sales team for this hugely successful trading operation. She ranks No. 32 on
Fortune magazine’s list of the most powerful women in business.
Bankers
9 – Gordon Dyal, global head of mergers and acquisitions. According to
Deallogic, Goldman ranked No.1 in global M&A transactions through the first
three-quarters of the year. Its investment banking division had produced $3.2
billion in net revenue. In one of the biggest fee-generating deals of the year,
Goldman advised Burlington Northern Santa Fe when the railroad was bought
out for $44 billion by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway.
10 – Richard Friedman, 51-year-old head of Goldman’s merchant banking
division. A few years ago he helped pull off the historic initial public offering
of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China. Goldman has maintained a
modest investment stake in ICBC, which continues to produce eye-popping
returns – ICBC shares yielded Goldman $1.1 billion worth of revenue through
the first nine months of 2009.
The complaints about excessive bonuses at the big investment banks, especially
Goldman, have not just been coming from politicians and the media. The
Security Police and Fire Professionals of America Retirement Fund has filed
a shareholder lawsuit against the bank, naming its CEO Lloyd Blankfein and
other leading executives as defendants. The suit is seeking to recover billions of
dollars that Goldman has paid to its employees in bonuses over the past couple
of years.
Although the bank has repaid its TARP money, its critics claim that it has also
unfairly benefited from its bonds being backed by the government at no cost, as
well as from the bailout of AIG, in which it was a major shareholder. However,
even in recent years, the US governement has gained vastly more in tax revenue
from the bank than it has spent bailing it out.
O
n Tuesday, the Mas-
sachusetts Senate race
was won by the Repub-
lican candidate, Scott
Brown. His Demo-
cratic rival Martha Coakley put up a
pathetically weak fight. Her official
campaign literature misspelt the word
Massachusetts, and she confused the
Boston Red Sox with the New York
Yankees (Boston is the capital of Mas-
sachusetts). Brown was able to win the
seat despite Republicans being out-
numbered three to one in the state.
His victory sends an especially clear
message about Obama’s falling pres-
tige and the Democrats’ momentum
heading into the 2010 campaign sea-
son, because he had chosen to make
signature issues out of the key divid-
ing lines in US politics today.
Massachusetts Republicans had
feared that voters may choose the
Democratic candidate out of pure
habit. The seat has been in Kennedy
hands for over half a century and
Democratic since the early ‘20s. Seek-
ing to address this issue Brown had
noted that, “this Senate seat belongs
to no one person, no one political par-
ty. This is the people’s seat.”
John Walsh, Chairman of the Mas-
sachusetts Democratic Party, blamed
the Party and the campaign that it ran,
“we have to get better at describing
Brown has been running as an in-
dependent, going around the state in
a pick-up truck and asking famous
Republican politicians not to actively
campaign for him. This led Massa-
chusetts’ former Republican Governor
Paul Cellucci to conclude that, “the
message for the national Republican
Party should be, even though peo-
ple aren’t happy with the Democrats
right now, if we get back to power we
can find ways to be independent and
be bipartisan. People are sick of this
partisanship.”
Brown will serve the rest of the late
Senator Ted Kennedy’s term, until
January 2013. He replaces Paul Kirk, a
close friend of Ted Kennedy who was
appointed by Democratic Governor
Deval Patrick on Sept 24 to temporar-
ily fill the vacant seat.
Ironically, Mr. Kirk could have
served out the remainder of Ted
Kennedy’s term but for recent Demo-
cratic legislation that requires special
elections for vacant Senate seats in the
Commonwealth.
That legislation was passed at a time
when a Democratic state legislature
feared that then Republican Governor,
Mitt Romney would appoint a Repub-
lican to fill John Kerry’s seat. A seat
which was supposed to be vacated by
Kerry winning the 2004 United States
Presidential elections.

