8
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 22 JANUARY 2010
T
he American campaign
trail is a thing of beauty.
An exhibition of pure de-
mocracy at work, it really
encapsulated Churchill’s
quotation: “It has been said that de-
mocracy is the worst form of govern-
ment except all the others that have
been tried”. Nowhere else would you
find an Ivy League elitist engaging in
high level debates with the farmers,
steel workers and college drop-outs of
the American heartland. The idealistic
virtues of politics are exemplified and
the devious natures of political manip-
ulation are forgotten. “...5 minutes with
the average voter”, rather than the “best
argument against democracy” (again
Churchill) I think it perfectly dem-
onstrates the essence of it. With the
addition of Hollywood glamour, the
alluring factor of election season be-
comes irresistible. If anyone has seen/
iPlayered the film about the election
story of Barack Obama last week, they
will have see the struggles, hopes and
triumphs of a Presidential election. A
story any Hollywood producer would
have been proud of, the “American
dream” has never been more enticing,
much like the silicone infested body of
Pamela Anderson.
However, like Pamela Anderson,
American democracy is unfortunately
all show and no substance. Take the
case of Barack Obama, a person so full
of hope and promise, destined to lead
America out of the depths of despair
and into a new age of glory. One year
after “Obamaina”, it is difficult to see
what he has actually done to change
America let alone deserve a Nobel
Prize (ironically “Change” essentially
won him the election). Obama has
just about tried everything to make
an impact but even the air of promise
has been suffocated by the poisons of
Washington. The much hyped health-
care reform so central to his campaign
finally passed the Senate on Christ-
mas Eve and after going through the
reshaping of the US Congress, it has
been maimed beyond recognition, a
far cry from Obama’s initial dream of
government funded universal health-
care. Countless other Obama initia-
tives, foreign and domestic including
key campaign issues such as Guan-
tanamo Bay, Iraq and Afghanistan,
Climate and Economy are stuck in the
monotonous grinding processes of the
House and Senate and it is difficult to
see how long it would be until any re-
sults are seen.
It is easy to criticise the US Congress
on delaying issues for the sake of po-
litical shenanigans but I think the US
Democratic system is to blame. Yes
the very democracy that I championed
at the start of the article is indeed the
root of the problem. Herein lies the
problem and it is a wonder that any-
thing ever gets done in American poli-
tics: 4 years in a presidency, 2nd year
midterms, 4th year re-election there-
fore need to campaign therefore noth-
ing substantial gets done; 3rd year is
after midterms which means Congress
has changed therefore new people can
appear on the scene to satisfy or you
might have lost the majority and you
need to think about re-election there-
fore minimal things get done. This
only leaves the first year to get any-
thing done and if it takes 11 months to
pass a healthcare bill then how can a
president deliver on his promises high-
lighted so poetically in the campaign?
I really do hope the idea of democ-
racy in America in more than mere de-
bate, great rhetoric in campaigns and
political manipulation in government.
Mario Cuomo said that “You campaign
in poetry. You govern in prose” and I
wish more life-changing prose can
be written from the Oval Office. In
fact American democracy could not
be simpler: either run for elections or
delay actually governing until another
one comes along! Like Pamela Ander-
son, American democracy entices you
with its tantalizing appeal of elections,
but Hollywood surgery only serves to
look good and nothing more.
AliJawadonthelackofhumanrightsinGaza
“...like Pamela
Anderson,
American
democracy is
unfortunately
all show and no
2
4th December, 2008. Many
of us were most likely sit-
ting at home with the family,
enjoying a peaceful night in,
or out partying with friends,
as Christmas Eve should be. Yet some
2000 miles away, the mood could not
be more different. On a 25-mile strip
of coastal land steeped in history,
controversy and conflict, fighting had
once again broken out. This foresaw
more tears and bloodshed in the area
famously dubbed ‘the world’s larg-
est open-air prison’ – a fitting name
for the territory, walled-off and under
strict constant surveillance, encapsu-
lating a million and a half people, many
innocent children unknowing of what
would befall them. War had once more
struck Gaza, Palestine, already decrep-
it from years of repeated battles.
Yet this recent conflict, referred to as
‘The Gaza War’, spurned tragedies un-
precedented on these grounds, with an
estimated death toll of 1400 Palestin-
ians, over 900 of whom were civilians,
as reported by the Palestinian Centre
of Human Rights. However, this con-
trasts drastically with figures presented
by the opposing Israeli Defence Force,
with 1100 Palestinian mortalities, and
the ratio of civilians to militia reversed.
The discrepancy between statistics,
not to mention the barring of reporters
from entering the war zone, highlights
the shrouded nature of this particular
clash. Channel 4 news stalwart John
Snow, viewing the clash from a hilltop
outside the Gazan borders, reported:
‘As with every military conflict, the
inevitable first casualty is the truth...
caught in a pincer movement of lack of
access, and our own regulations’. Even
UN Representatives were restricted
from investigating accounts of numer-
ous war crimes and severe breaches of
humanitarian law, such as the shelling
of a former UN school-turn-refugee
camp, resulting in the reported deaths
of 40 Palestinians. Statistics can only
show a small portion of war – the true
horrors, such as countless bodies lying
in blood-spattered rubble, or a hysteri-
cal mother rushing through the streets
carrying the remains of what used to
be her living, breathing child, had to
be seen to be understood. As John
Snow also stated: ‘Wrapped remains
and wailing women shock, but do not
connect in the same way. We see the
image, we know it’s bad, but we do not
experience the emotion. When the
Israelis exclude the media, they know
what they are doing.’
As we look back on history, we only
need to go as far as the new Millen-
nium to gather a veritable number of
past conflicts, setting aside the count-
less wars dating back to the historical
formation of the State of Israel in 1948.
The years 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003
have all hosted major clashes between
Israeli Forces and Palestinian Militia,
with the unavoidable involvement of
the densely-populated Gaza. Yet it was
2004 that marked the first of a series
of Gaza-centred urban skirmishes,
with reiterations in the second half of
2006, 2007-2008 and, most recently,
the 17-day massacre of December
2008 to January 2009. Major fighting
has become more than a regular visi-
tor to the region; it is almost routine,
and residents’ hopes for a positive
future are undoubtedly deteriorating
day by day. Yet war does not stop at
‘mere’ fighting – 2006 is notable for
the Israeli sanctions on Gaza, which
in the following year manifested into
a merciless blockade that has yet to be
lifted, despite calls from major powers
and figures worldwide. The damage
to the economy is not nearly as seri-
ous as its brutal effect on living con-
ditions and the health services. With-
out running water and electricity, and
lacking supplies, Gaza slowly began
to wither, with hospitals producing
horrific numbers of mortalities. Yet
amidst the cries, Egypt, once a sym-
pathiser with the victims, sealed off
passage and aid with a barrier of their
own, leaving what seemed to be almost
no way out. Finally, the impoverished
enclave was struck further when the
Gaza War inflicted another $2 billion
worth of damage. And Human Rights?
The great papers of Declaration now
lay tattered amongst the smouldering
remains of war.
Yet the 2008/2009 war was also dif-
ferent in another sense; it resonated
uncomfortably with a public previous-
ly apathetic to the goings-on in the ter-
ritory. Support from all over the globe
has poured in, and people, a vast pro-
portion of them students, have rallied
in their furious shouts for ‘something
to be done’, for ‘Human Rights to be ac-
knowledged’, for ‘the murder to cease’.
Aside from major charities such as
UNICEF and British Red Cross pledg-
ing their aid, numerous smaller chari-
ties have sprung up to play their part.
The recent conflict in particular saw a
nationwide student backlash - student
activism took hold of the universities,
in a manner somewhat reminiscent of
the days of the Vietnam War. This Jan-
uary will herald Gaza Awareness week
in Imperial College London, orches-
trated by Ahlul Bayt Society, providing
an opportunity for you to get involved
or even just to educate yourself about
this worthy cause.
KenWuontheglamourofAmericandemocracy
“Damage to the
economy is not as
serious as its effect
on living conditions
and health services”

