F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L . C O L L E G E U N I O N
NO. 165 F R I D A Y , O C T O B E R 13TH 1961 PRICF 4n
R E F E C T O R I E S
The return of the undergraudates last week
and the influx of freshers has again brought
the inadequacy of the refectory facilities to
our notice. At lunchtime the crush in the
Union is almost unbearable, with the queue
for the lower refectory stretching into the
Union entrance and the Snack Bar queue well
into the archwav. And the usual complaints
of cool and unappetising food are to be heard
again.
There is a tendency to put the blame for
this admittedly unsatisfactory situation entire-
ly on the shoulders of the refectory manager
and the refectory committee, but a knowledge
of the matter shows that the manager and
the committee are. in fact, doing their best
under extremely frying conditions. For in-
stance, there is only one kitchen in the Union
building, tucked away behind the lower re-
fectory, and meals for the Dining Hall and
the Upper Refectory have to be cooked here
•and transported, by lift. This ldtchen was
designed to cater for 800 at lunchtimes,
whereas in fact. 1300 lunches are cooked
there in the two-hour lunch period, and many
of the manager's problems stem from (this
gross overloading of the only kitchen. Also
the staff have to be paid for 52 weeks of the
year while the majority are only really needed
for 30, which increases the refectory costs,
and hence the price of the meals enormous-
ly.
Of the longterm remedies, next October
there will be at least one of the new South
side refectories open, and Week's Hall will
be providing lunches, although Ayrton Hall
will be closed and demolished next Easter.
Since the College generally is relatively quiet
during the summer term, and the refectories
much less busy, this should not be a serious
difficulty. It is eventually planned to have
three refectories on South Side and there will
also be refectories on the Island site when this
is completed. Even so, the increase in refect-
ory accommodation twill hardly keep pace
with the increasing student numbers.
What can be done now to alleviate the
position? First of all, students can help bv
using the existing facilities to the best ad-
vantage; for instance, Ayrton Hall could be
used more at lunchtime, thus easing the load
on the Union, and it does not seem to be
generally known that suppers are served a*
178 Queen's Gate. This service is available
to all members of the College, provided that
collar, tie and jacket are worn, as in the Din-
ing Hall, and the meals with waitress service
are 6d. to Is. dearer than the usual self-ser-
vice meals. If this is not better patronised, it
will have to close down at Christmas, which
seems a pity in view of the shortage of refect-
ory facilities.
Finally, the queues would be reduced en-
ormously if students would have their money,
preferably the correct amount, ready for the
cashier, for most of the delays are at the
cashier's end of the counter. Attenltion to
these points will reduce the delays, and we
must bear with M r . Mooney and his staff
until better cooking facilities are available.
PROPOGANDA
RECEIVED
The Editor receives every week several
newsletters, usually pro- or anticommunist
propaganda, including the International
Union of Students news bulletin. If any stud-
ent at this College wishes to receive this the
Editor will be glad to pass it on. Drop a
note in the Union rack.
Among this week's post was a brotherly
letter from the Editor of Sennet the Univer-
sity newspaper, inviting me to call in at their
office any time, and a mysterious note an-
noucing the opening of the Electrical Dep-
artment Workshops on April lst, 1984; the
ceremony will be performed by Superintend-
ant Emeritus C.C. Mills, when "a machine
will be switched on".
When3
bule meets3
bule
During the filming of "The Girl on the Boat", starring Norman Wisdom, outside R.C.M.
on Sunday, our photographer caugh this unlikely pair in conversation.

