Freshers3
Monday 2nd October Freshers' Day dawned
again. A t 10.30 a.m. some 400 post-graduate
freshers assembled in the Geographical Hall
that famous meeting place used each year
for the Freshers' address by the Rector, Sir
"Patrick Linstead, and the various Union Of-
ficials. Sir Patrick reminded them all the world-
wide reputation of Imperial College and ex-
pressed the hope that all of them would con-
tribute in some way or other to the Col-
lege name. Afterwards various Union Of-
ficials including the President of I.C. and the
Constituent College Presidents addressed the
meeting but your reporter seemed to notice
a curious lack of response which he hopes
is not to be interpreted as meaning that
the post-graduates do not intend to make any
contribution to College life.
The response from the under-graduates was
more promising. The Rector addressed some
600 under-graduates; he warned them of the
dangers of not achieving a correct balance of
work and play but at the same time he con-
gratulated them on securing entry to I.C. say-
ing 'For each one of you who has secured
entry to this College there are seven who
failed to secure entry; in other words there are
behind each one of you seven ghostly images.'
It is of interest to note here that the Warden
of Beit Hall in his address to the Residents
on the occasion of their Coming-Up Dinner
said, 'Behind each one of you who secured
admission to this hall there twenty not so
ghostly images who failed to secure admis-
sion', he went on, 'this in total can be said
to represent a veritable pinnacle of frustrat-
ion'. After further pop talks by Union Offic-
ials the freshers descended in the Union
where an excellent buffet luncheon had been
Day 19GI
provided. In the afternoon the club Offic-
ials exercised their persuasive powers to caj-
ole freshers into joining the very large select-
ion of societies.
In all one could say that the day was a
success althougjh one cannot but think that
the whole day is perhaps a trifle overwhelm-
ing to the novice.
__
m .
The President speaking to Freshers.
U N I V E R S A L
1
F R E S H E R S W E L C O M E
I would like to welcome all freshers to our
Union (club, society, campaign) and I am very
pleased (glad, excited), at the prospect of
guiding us through this academic year You have
probably been told by the Rector (President.
Secretary, Chairman), that the purpose of this
Union (club, society, campaign) is working
(playing, sporting, marching) and I fully agree
with this.
The constitution (Blue Book, Rules) of this
Union (club, society, campaign) will tell you
that we exist solely for the best interests
(edification, amusements) of its members, and
you will find that the Rector (President, Chair-
man, Secretary, Commodore) is only too happy
to help you in any way that he can. I, of
course, will do my bit, and my committee
will, I am sure, do all they can to make your
one (two, three) years here as happy as pos-
sible.
Those of you who have not already paid
your Union fee (subscription, party member-
ship) will find the Treasurer (Domestic Bursar.
Comissar) at the door. This Union fee (sub-
scription, party membership) entitles you to
all the privileges of the Union (club, society,
campaign) and I think that you will find
that it is certainly worth every Jd (Id, Is, £1).
QUOTES O F T H E W E E K
"It takes a dirty mind to find a dirty mind."
Sec. of Felix.
"We are just good friends."
Bob Finch and Jim Carter
"The freshers look like a weedy lot this year."
Welt-known ICWArian
"The collective noun for ICWArians should
be 'babble."
P. Savage
"Time, please."
Howard, at 9.30 one night, putting out the
bar lights.
"Sorry, I wasn't in yesterday. Ihad a reccur-
ence of malaria."
Stan.
"Someone knocked at my door yesterday
when I was out. well you know, in but out,
if you see what I mean, and I'd like to know
who it was."
Ed.
"My mother warned me not to get into a
voung man's car."
Unknown Bedford fresher to Capt. of Hockey:
"No, I haven't got a job yet."
Ex-Pres. of I.C.
THIS SPACE RESERVED FOR YOU!
Advertise in FELMX

