F E L I X
Dear Sir,
At the Joint Council Meeting at the end
of last term, the I.C. Nuclear Disarmament
Club was disbanded — at a time when most
of us had already left for the vacation. The
elected committee for this session met today
for the first time and discussed the situation.
Since we do not know officially why we
have been disbanded, we are not yet in a
position to reply to the allegations against
us, whatever they may be. However, we hope
that we will be allowed to attend the next
meeting of the Social Clubs Committee and
ask for our reinstatement.
It is unprecedented for action to be taken
against a society without consultation with
the S.C.C.
Yours faithfully,
Fuchs
p.p. Committee-elect I.C.C.N.D. Club
EDITOR'S NOTES.
This letter is published just as received,
and it is necessary to add the following points
for those who do not know the full facts of
the matter.
a. The Council Meeting in question was
held during term-time; if the members of
I.C.C.N.D. leave College before the end of
term they cannot blame Council for their ab-
sence.
b. Council is not bound to inform a sus-
pended society of the reasons for their sus-
pension, and the minutes of this meeting have
not been approved yet.
c. Whether Council's action is unpreced-
ented or not irrelevant. Council acted within
its powers as defined in the Blue Book.
d. No body of students may call itself an
I.C. Society unless it is a properly constituted
Union society. The constitution of the former
I.C.C.N.D. has been suspended and therefore
the students whom Mr. Fuchs represents have
no right to call themselves "the Committee-
elect of the I.C.C.N.D. Club."
Dear Sir,
The freshers' hop was very enjoyable, and
as a fresher might I congratulate the Enter-
tainments Committee on the good show it
put on: Only one thing marred an otherwise
excellent evening. I went into the bar and
found that there were a number of drunken
students singing filthy songs and throwing
beer around. Everyone to his own taste, of
course, but I think it's a little selfish of theie
people to take over the bar in this fashion
and not to allow anyone 'to have a quiet
drink. Perhaps, one evening a week could be
set a side for singing and horseplay thus, leav-
ing the other six free for those who want to
use the bar for civilised drinking.
Yours faithfully,
G. Thomas Phys. 1.
Dear Sir,
It may well be noticed by the objective
observer that the Guilds Executive is now
90% Chem. Eng. As a member of Guilds and
a non-member of Chem.Eng I suggest that
the rest of City and Guilds secede from the
newly-formed CHem. Eng. Union, for it is
perfectly obvious that an underhand camp-
aign has been waged by the 3rd year Chem.
Eng. which owing to the apathy of the rest
of City and Guilds has been wholly success-
ful
It is for these reasons that I suggest that
like the E.T.U., Chem. Eng.. be expelled from
the Union, or alternatively, the Union be ex-
pelled from Chem. Eng. As I value my skin
(why? — Ed.) and am not sure which direct-
ion my soul will go, I request that you accept
my signature as,
An irate Guildsman
N.B. Just for the record, the Guilds Executive
is 50% Chem. Eng., though the Entertian-
ments Committee is entirely composed of
Chemical Engineers.
Editor
Dear Sir.
I see that once again the College have
allowed a large number of young ladies to
enter this predominantly male establishments.
I have nothing against women generally, but
really! When will the authorities realise that
a small number of jeunes filles is worse than
none at all? Later this session, I expect that
the old motion about allowing women into
the bar will raise its ugly head, and the same
old arguments for and against will be resur-
rected. I think it would be a good idea to fore-
stall this inevitable repechage with a motion
which, although it might not allow av much
hot air to be vented to atmosphere, will at
least be novel. The motion is this: "This
Union views with alarm the continued select-
ion of young women in numbers insufficient
to supply the demand of all students, and re-
commends to the Governing Body that a com-
plete overhaul of the method of selection of
women students is necessary. The Union
would suggest that the entry qualifications
should be changed from three advanced to
35-26-36." / put it to you all that althougji
the women be just as much a nuisance as they
ever were, they would be infinitely more
pleasing to look upon.
Yours faithfully,
A. Wellwisher
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
COMMEMORATION D A Y
T H U R S D A Y , 26TH O C T O B E R 1961
3 P. M .
Special Visitor:
THE RT. HON. THE VISCOUNT, HAILSHAM, QC, Lord President of the Council
and Minister for Science.
The ceremony will be preceded by a short service in Holy Trinity Church, Prince
Consort Road, at which the preacher will be The Very Rev. E.S. Abbot, D D . M A ,
Dean of Westminster Abbey.
Associates and Diplomates, Honorary Associates and Fellows, are honoured by the
College at the ceremony in the Royal Albert Hall.
Students and their guests are admitted without tickets at Main Door {Entrance
No.6), and are asked to be seated by 2.45 p.m. Tickets for tea may be obtained from
the Union Office, free of charge.
The work and buildings of the City and Guilds College will be on view until 7 p.m.

