F E L I X
I I W S P 1 P 1 B O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
Editorial Catnment
The Editor is occasionally asked, usually
by the people who can think of nothing bet-
ter to say, what his editorial policy is. The
answer to this question depends on what is
meant by the word policy. Felix has no policy
in the sense that the Daily Express has a
pro-Empire policy or the Times a pro-Gov-
ernment policy, for we avoid consciously slant-
ing news to bias our readers for or against
any particular cause or body; we aim at pre-
senting, if not in the same issue at least in
consecutive issues, both sides of the current
controversy. This is in itself a superhuman
task. Any reporter or commentator is biased
in some way, for even if he or she has no
interest in a dispute his or her views may be
swayed by other things. For instance, a group
of people, however worthy they may be of
punishment, being treated roughly, high-
handeddly or slightly unfair by authority will
always invite sympathy, and they usually get
it.
When spokesmen for both sides are invited
to state their cases there are still difficulties.
The two writers rarely submit articles of equal
length, and editorial interference is not
taken kindly. Giving both article equal pro-
minence also poses problems, and a chance
typographical error can reduce the one to in-
coherence and leave the other convincingly
logical. Thus although neutrality is our aim
it is always difficult to achieve.
"Felix is lively animal" says the Blue Book,
and indeed we do try to keep the Union
awake, to prick its conscience and to point
out its hypocrisies. But to strike a balance
between being lively and giving unwarranted
publicity to groups whose aims are not in the
best interest of the Union is again difficult.
In fact, the policy of having no policy in
this sense is in many ways the hardest of all
to adhere to.
The Eidtor would like to thank James
Carter, Finlay McPherson, John Jennings,
Dick Lewis, Jan Guy, Colcutt, Collin Win-
With this, Felix aims at providing each
fortnight a balanced mixture of news, com-
ment, opinion, gossip and humour to please
as many as possible of our readers. We have
said a good deal about aims but little about
achievements, for this is for you to judge.
Inevitably you will feel that in some issues
this balance has not been correct, and that
the paper has been too serious, too frivolous,
lacking in news and so on. It is then up to
you to correct this by writing articles of
the type which you felt were lacking, for
Felix is your paper, the forum for your
views and the showcase for your literary
talent. This paper will be in part what
you, our readers, are willing to make it. The
staff are not exceptionally brilliant writers
or journalists, capable of turning out delight-
ful articles issue after issue for your admir-
ation, thev are ordinary students 'who be-
lieve that this College will benefit from having
a newspaper and who are willing to put >
n
a good deal of hard work to see that it does
have one.
Finally, we do not print every article
which we receive for a variety of reasons.
We rarely receive anything which is obscene,
blastphemous or libelous, though occasion-
ally it would be tactless or offensive to print
something which does not fall directly into
one of these categories. Usually the reason is
that it would upset the balance of the paper,
and acceptable material has to be held over
to the next issue. Here again' it is difficult
to anticipate everyone's reactions to any part-
icular contribution.
In short then, we aim at providing a bal-
anced, neutral and lively paper, and although
we crave your indulgence for our deficien-
cies, we shall work extremely hard to achieve
that aim this year.
1 9 6 1 / 6 2
DAVE GILBERT
PENNY HOWARD
MICHELE CONFAUVREUX
CHRIS PETRI
DENIS RAMHARRY
ANDREW PAWLOWICZ
Vacancy
TONY ALCOCK
PETE YOUNG
stone, John Sheard, Chris James. John
Klasoha, Si Lyle, Rimshot and all his regular
staff for their work in this issue.
This term has begun, if you know what 1
mean. I mean that this term has begun with
the entry of one thousand three hundred and
eighty potential bop'bone players into the Col-
lege. But, 1 hear your cry, in how many idiots
will this potential be brought to fruition1
A rapid glance at the Rimshot Jazz Year-
book indicates that the answer is that one
quarter of one freshmen will become a boot-
ing funk trombone man. Other interesting
statistical forecasts from the same source in-
dicate that this year will see the emergence
of twelve traditional clarinettists, half a bass
player, one third of a modern drummer, one
puffed-cheek euphonium player, no less than
seventeen washboard soloists, a close approx-
imation to one quarter of a soul pianist, to-
gether with one eighth of a cor-anglais player
and ninety seven banjoists. Assuming the val-
idity of the Rimshot statistics, the pooling of
this varied and curious musical talent should
produce a provocative new noise.
The modern Jazz Quartet recently com-
pleted a tour of this country. The Imperial
College Jazz Club were, as usual, behind
their ica-creani trays at the Hammersmith
Gaumont. In between melting banana splits
I enjoyed four of their shows, And like stayed
awake the whole time! In small doses the
M.J.Q. are a very plasant noise ,but a whole
show, Bugsville. The John Lewis approach
to jazz is static, man. A quartet using these
instruments (vibes, piano, bass, drums) cannot
produce a very wide range of overall sound.
After an hour and half's listening I've had
enough, not notwithstanding the incredible
Milt Jackson. Milts vibes solos were mostly
a gas — fabulous technique and ideas. John
Lewis' dull tone on piano and his too polite
approach took much of the edge of some in-
teresting phrases. Percy Heath's bass playing
was often out of tune, and Connie Kay's
drumming was fair. In the last show, however.
Ronnie Ross (baritone sax) appeared as guest.
Ross is just what this group needs, and his
beautiful tone, inherent sense of swing and
immaculate phrasing gave great lift to the
group. Numbers I enjoyed were "The Animal
Dance", from the ballet "Original Sin", "If
You were Eve" also from O.S., and "bag's
Groove". A l l these featured Ross.
I.C.'s Jazz Club President, trombone
player, Ken Gibson, completed a tour with the
Red Prince Orohestra this summer. Ask him
for some stories about Jimmy Skidmore's
grandmother. Ken is now making a tentative
study of the puffed- cheek trombone method,
otherwise known as L i p Pucker. The only re-
liable tutor for this method is "Rimshot's
Puffed Cheek Method" obtainable from all
good chemists. Buy it now!
F E L I X B O A R D
Editor
Secretary
Sales Manager
Assistant Sales Manager
Sports Editor
Production Manager
Advertising Manager
Treasurer and Buisness Manager
Publications Board Representative
T H A N K S

