by COLCUTT
The invasion has begun. The peace, order
and comfort of the past few, retrospectively
blissful, weeks have vanished in the chaos of
the new term. The quadrangle overflows,
Mooney's staff tear their hair, queues from
everywhere, and Howard and Arthur long for
the last of the Freshers' Dinners. Even the
"Doms School" has been unable to function,
due to the crush, and the few addicts are
wandering hopelessly and helplessly, looking for
somewhere to mix their doms.
But the invasion has been carried out rather
more sedately than usual. The freshers act-
ually smile when they go into the Union Office
to ask from whence cometh their Union
cards, and they clap very politely at all the
correct places at the various receptions. In
fact, they seem to be a very decorous, order-
ly and mannerly shower althogether. No
doubt the Freshers' Dinners will give an in-
dication of their true colours.
Thinking of colours, one wonders if the
flag drapped elegantly around the dartboard
is the personal standard of the President or
just some more work of the boys. Think-
ing back to the freshers, it was strange to see
the many hardened faces among the downy
freshers, all trying to obtain free freshers
lunches. When these hardened gentlemen first
came to the College years ago (where is an
integer between 2 and 7) there were no
fresher' lunches, so no doubt they feel that
they have every right to take what ought to
have been theirs.
Which brings me to the subject of C.N.D.
When one considers that their puerile little
handouts are just typical„of the juvenile ment-
ality and antics of the College C.N.D. group,
one can sypathise with the members of
Council who became so heartily sick of these
individuals last year that they decided to try
to shake some sense into the society by sus-
pending its constitution. It seems their efforts
were in vain. Why is it that causes that are
undoubtedly worthy of considerable thought
and level-header action invariably come to
rest in the hands of such small-minded in-
dividuals?
I heard rumours last week that Jim Carter
(ex-Union Secretary) and Bob Finch (ex-
Chairman S.C.C.) Were having to sleep al-
ternate nights as they only had one bed be-
tween them. Jim denied it, of course.
Jubilant cries were heard in the lounge last
week, emanating from our Editor who had
just discovered a copy of "What's On" (is this
a record?). When it was pointed out to him
that it was the previous week's issue he was
undaunted: " / shall enjoy reading about oil
the things I should have gone to", he said.
Ita heac vita hominum ad modicum apparet
quid autem sequatur quidve praecessarit pror-
sus ignoramus. Or perhaps, he just reads it
for the strip club adverts.
Have you noticed the young ladies of
I.C.W.A. parading backwards and forwards
and forwards and backwards across the quad?
There seems to be a definite relationship be-
tween the number of quad.-crossings (q) and
the man-appeal of the young ladies (cor! !)
which may be writen as:
SUCCESSFUL F R E S H M E N S ' E V E N I N G ?
Advertise
in FELIX
Morphy Day
1901
Morphy Day is one of the oldest occasions
at Imperial College and is still one of the
most important. For those who have not been
informed as to what Morphy Day is, it is
sufficient to say that Morphy Day is Boat
Race Day, that is to say the three Constituent
(Colleges race each other for the Morphy and
Lowry Trophies.
Obviously as those of us who take part in
any sport will know support is vital to any
race such as this. Thus each year hordes of
people descend on Putney and usually before
the race Guilds and R.C.S. have a battle of
Mascots, which those who like sport revel in.
This year it is rumoured that one of the
colleges has some new and secret weapon
which will wipe out the other college with
one blast if used For this reason if for no
other one can except an even better Morphy
Day than ever before.
One cannot but urge all of you to come
to Putney on November lst; those of you
who feel worried about missing lectures can
take solace in the fact that Morphy Day is
a half-holiday.
B O O K S T A L L C O M M I T T E E C H A N G E S
Mr. Morris has been appointed Chairman
of the Bookstall Committee to replace Dr
Lamb. Dr. Neal of the Mechanical Engine-
ering Department has been appointed as the
other staff representative.
F e l i x
P u b
G u i d e
by K E G
No. 1.
T H E Q U E E N S A R M S
The Queen's Arms, usually known as the
'Queens', has the distinction of being the near-
est pub to I.C. It is tucked away in Queen's
Gate Mews which is the first turning on the
right up Queen's Gate Terrace from Queen's
Gate. The "Queens" is not the most luxour-
ious of pubs but it is comfortably and plainly
furnished, with a darts room off the public
bar. Its hours offer a useful extension over
hours and both BASS and W O R T H I N G T O N
are available on draught. A wid; selection of
cold meats, pies and sandwiches is available,
especially at lunchtime. The Editor w i . Well-
come suggestions for inclusion in this series.

