Dramatic
Society
F E L I X
J A N MAYEN
AN ACCOUNT OF THE TRAGIC ACCIDENT
IN JAN MAYEN, IN WHICH FOUR MEMBERS
OF THE UNION LOST THEIR LIVES.
On the 25th June 1961 five members of
the Universit/ of London Beerenberg Exped-
ition, lost their lives in Jan Mayen. J.D.
Booth, J.R. Fraser, C M . Smith and P. Smith
were members of the glaciological party from
Imperial College, working in conduction with
a team of Geoloigists from Birckbeck Col-
lege. J. Cole was the other member of the
Expedition lost in the accident.
[ had no wish to write this account of the
accident but many inaccurate accounts of this
tragedy are circulating in the Union and it is
only right that a factual account should be
given by a member of the expedition.
Most of the inaccuracies are due to reports
which appeared in the National Press before
the full facts were known. The Norwegian
Press condemned the 12ft. fibreglass boat be-
cause it was not built of wood. The British
Press took their lead from the Norwegians.
The boat was, however, designed and built
for the conditions in Jan Mayen. and is sim-
ilar to boats used by the Falkland Islands
Dependencies Survey in Antarctica.
The dinghy had been used successfully
around the Island in 1959. Furthermore, (he
boat and its two outboard engines were crit-
ically tested before leaving this country. A l -
though one engine was sufficient to power
the boat two were fitted as a safety precaution
so that if one failed the remaining engine
would keep the boat under way.
The accident occured when the glaciolog-
ical team from Imperial College were being
ferried from Middle Jan to the North Cape
of the Island where they were to have been
based for the next part of their work. The
sea was flat calm when the journey com-
menced, so calm that it was possible to take
hand-held telephoto cine shots of the seabirds
on the cliffs.
The boat was hit by a sudden squall and
within five minutes the sea was raised into
a ferment of conical waves. One of these waves
swamped the two outboard motors so that nei-
ther was restarted. Orders were immediately
given to use the oars. It was as these were
being brought into use that a second wave
capsized the boat.
At the time of the accident the party was
not more than 200 yds. from the shore since
it was known that such winds can arise ex-
tremely rapidly in this area. These katabatic
winds are caused by cold air masses gather-
ing momentum while falling from the crater
rim of the extinct Beerenberg volcano
7,000 ft. above and are very local (at the time
of the accident the air was calm only five
miles away).
It was no more than twenty minutes from
the time of the accident to when Fitch, the
leader of the Expedition and sole survivor
from the boat. reehined consciousness on the
beach. The wind had died down and the sea
was 'oily' calm again shortly after. Fitch then
walked to the Radio Station without foot-
wear, across snowfields and lava flows, a re-
markable feat of courage and endurance.
May I finally say that expeditions would
not obtain the support of the College Ex-
ploration Board, the Royal Geographical
Society and another sponsoring bodies unless
they had full confidence in the expeditions'
plans. Further confidence in this Expedition
was demonstrated after the accident by the
additional support we received to return to
Jan Mayen to complete the glaciological
work that had been started.
J.W.S.
With the beginning of the new accademic
year, quite naturally all our College societies
are mustering their forces, and making plans
for the future.
Amongst these is the Dramatic Society
which although on public view on only a lim-
ited number of occasions, is nevertheless act-
ive all the year round. Already, plans have
been made, and auditions are in progress,
for the coming Christmas production, and
tentative plans are being formed for Easter
also.
The Christmas production will almost cert-
ainly be "Tiger at the Gates" by Jean
Giraudoux. and will be produced by Mike
Barron (known to many as a former Editor of
Felix).
So far this term, activity in the Society has
been largely centered around the recruitment
of freshers, since it is imperative that each
year there is an intake of "fresher" blood to
the Society in order that it may remain alive
and ambitious.
Following up contacts made in Freshers'
Day, the Society held a Freshers' Tea in the
Concert Hall Ion Thursday evening. Here,
after some light refreshment, the seventy or
so freshmen present were divided into two
groups, thise interested in acting, and those
more inclined towards back-stage work. The
former took in a play-reading session, and the
later session, and the later were introduced to
our stage whilst most of it's equipment was
demonstrated to them.
It is hoped that many of these freshmen
(and women), will now take an active inter-
est in our Dramatic Society. It should not
be out of place to mention that if freshers,
or second and third year students, who were
unable to attend the meeting, are neverthe-
less interested, they will always be welcomed
on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons when
most of the work on stage is done.
Of course, the prime object of the Dramatic
Society should be to entertain and to move its
audience. This can be difficult to accomplish,
and may become impossible unless the Col-
lege provides a worthwhile audience which,
sad to say for a college of our size, it some-
times fails to do! It is also valuable if the
audience then makes useful criticism of the
production as a whole (via Felix perhaps), so
that our standard can continue to improve.
Therefore to coclude, ;l quote from tnis
years's pamphlet to the freshers, when the
President said:
"The critical appreciation of the aud-
ience, of the College, is as vital to the Soc-
iety's well being as the enthusiasm of its
active members".
"So I extend an invitation to those of you
not concerned with the day to day function-
ing of the Socity to come and see our plavs.
and to let us know what you think of them."
C.H.W.

