F E L I X 7—
The Personality of Mr. Khrushchov
Every seat, stair and gangway of the »iain
physics lecture theatre packed on Thursday,
October 5th as the first of the term's lunch-
hour General Studies lectures was given. Sir
William Haytor, former British Ambassador
in Moscow, mingled biographical fact with
personal anecdote to paint a vivid picture of
the remarkable leader of Soviet Russia.
In spite of the Communistic theory that
Trends and Ideas have more effffect than per-
sonalities on world history, said Sir William,
this did not seem to be the case in Russia,
where the character of the regime was vastly
different under Lenin, Stalin and Khrushchov.
He had been on the Embeassy staff in the
thirties; at that time the Soviet leaders had
been virtually inaccessible, and what few
Russian friends they had were liable to dis-
appear suddenly. It was estimated that there
was a labour force of ten million in the Sib-
erian concentration camps. Nowadays these
camps, and the Secret Police who were
Stalin's biggest weapon, had almost entirely
disappeared.
Khrushchov, unlike Lenin and Stalin,
sprang from the socially acceptable back-
ground of the Russian peasantry. After some
elementary schooling, as evidenced by his
knowledge of the Bible, he went to work as
a shepherd boy, and later laboured in a Brit-
ish-owned factory. His experiences here gave
him a bitter hatred of capitalism and colon-
ialism.
His official biographies are strangely silent
on whether or not he fought in the First World
War. He joined the Communist Party a year
or two after the Revolution, and soon became
one of the professional organisers. Somehow,
he managed to hold his own among trie
purges and tyrannies of the Stalin era, and at
the dictator's death he was one of the Party's
top men.
Diplomats who met him in 1953, the tran-
sition period after Stalin's death, saw him as
a vehement, forceful little man with a chip
on his shoulder and an appealing ignorance
of foreign affairs: hardly the man to oust
Malenkov as the ruler of Russia. They were
wrong.
Khrushchov is not an absolute dict-
ator, but there is no effective opposition to
his regime, partly because there seem to be
no-one wno couia replace him. On one oc-
casion the Secretariat did vote against him;
the decision was later reversed by the General
Committee of the Party, and the delinquent
officials were relieved of their posts. The fate
of Khrushchov's political rivals is usually to
be posted to a harmless sinecure such as that
of Ambassador to Outer Mongolia.
Typical of Khrushchov's personality is his
reaction to the booing that greeted him dur-
ing his visit to Britain in 1956. On finding
out from the reluctant British Ambassador
that this was a gesture of disapproval, he
turned round in the car and booed back at
the crowd. He had expected a cool reception
by the Government and warm one by the
people; it was actually the other way round.
Even now he apparently tends to regard the
Western man-in-the-street as either a deluded
fool or a secret sympathiser. (Is this not also
a common Western view of the avarage
Russian?)
His frequent outbursts of rage, though un-
doubtedly genuine, are by no means uncon-
trollable. He managed for instance, to conceal
his hatred of Stalin until it meant no harm
to denounce him. Khrushchov combines a
peasant's bluntness with a diplomat's craft, a
comedian's cordiality with a tyrant's ruthless-
ness, a clown's buffoonery with a statesman's
wisdom. He is a fascinating character, and
very much a man to be reckoned with.
FRESHER'S HOP
Having received a complimentary ticket for
this function, it would be churlish of me to
be rude about the entertainments committe'j
organisation. As a matter of fact the whole
affair seemed to be very good indeed. I
passed through the Concert Hall at about n'ne
o'clock and observed a fair number of charm-
ing young ladies, and, returning an hour later,
noticed a slightly smaller, though still con-
siderable, number of charming young ladies:
the hall was well decorated, some imaginative
use had been made of the lighting available
and the band appeared to be functioning
satisfactorily. The Entertainments Committee
are to be congratulated on the whole affair
and if the standard of talent is maintained the
hops this year are going to be very crowded.
Something might be done to get over the
females that the I.C. bar is for men only.
No less than eight violated, those sacred
precints on Friday night and were driven out
by the howls of outraged men. The chairman
of the A.C.C. hardly sets a good example,
for he was enticing a young ICWArian into
the bar on Saturday night; what is ICWA
coming to these days?
F E L I X S M A L L A D S
DO Y O U need a status symbol?
And/or are you sick of the L.T.E.?
Why not purchase your independence
in a form of a
Series 1 M O R R I S 8 for only £20.
CONTACT A. LOGAN, CHEM. P.G.
W A N T E D
Amal l£in. or thereabouts G.P. or R . N .
carburettor plus remote float chamber.
MUST BE CHEAP.
BOX NO. 0071
A D V E R T I S E here and contact students
by the thousand.
ONLY 3D. PER LINE.

