SAILING CLUB
f SOCCER CLUB %s R " G B Y CLUB
With nine of last year's first team back at
College, we are confident of a successful sea-
son, though there is the possibility that Eddie
Holding will be playing in the U L U team,
and this will leave an awkward gap to fill.
We signed up about fifty freshers at the
freshers reception, and about forty turned up
for the trial games. We had three full games
going at the trials and we hope to run seven
normal teams this season and one abnormal
team which will be the most exclusive of the
lot, under the general misdirection of Ben
Hindley, who will, by definition, be the pivot
of the attack.
Congratulations to Max Finney, who turned
up in his usual state of semi-paralysis for last
Saturday's trial and scored all five goals. Sunt
laohrymae term...!
C O N T A C T W A N T E D
Mr. Steven Lajoie, of 392, Flatbush Ave-
nue, Hartford, Conn., U.S.A. would like to
correspond with engineering student at the
Imperial College. He is studying Mechanical
Engineering at the Hartford State Technical
Institute.
Felix
needs staff:
R E P O R T E R S
TYPISTS
S A L E S G I R L S
A D V E R T I S I N G M A N A G E R
CONTACT THE EDITOR
Room 88 New Hostel
or
via Union Rack
Tomorrow the season starts in earnest for
the Rugby Club (though the first fifteen
started last Wednesday) and with nine teams
to organise the officials have had a great
deal of work to do. But with trials over, in
which a number of useful freshers have been
found, the energies can be concentrated on
raising the playing standard throughout the
Club.
Those who played in the trials should look
up on the Club notice board next to the bar
and tick off when their names are on a team
shet or on the reserves list and they will get
a game. If there is anyone who missed the
trials and would like to play they should
contact the Hon. Sec. through the Union rack.
The Club is planning a French Tour (!)
at Christmas, and with this as a goal train-
ing sessions are held every Tuesday and
Thursday at 12.45 p.m. in Hyde Park, to
which all players are welcomed. Before the
Tour the first round of the University Cup
has to played, on November 22nd against
Northampton College at Harlington. It will
be a hard campaign for I.C. with Kings and
U.C. in the same half of the draw, but the
Club has the ability to retain the Cup and
uphold their reputation as the strongest Club
in the University. But remember, the Club
does not live by its first fifteen and its
strength and spirit stem in large measure from
the lower teams.
Finally, do not forget the Qub's social
evening sometime this month, where it is
hoped to have one or two Rugby personal-
ities along, and to show some films. Freshers
will also have an opportunity of meeting the
old lads and to fight with them for the beer
and sausage rolls.
^ CROSS COUNTRY
Twenty nine freshers showed enough inter-
est in the club to sign on at the reception on
Monday 2nd October. Of this number nine-
teen managed to appear on Wednesday after-
noon for a jog round Hyde Park followed by
tea in Weeks Hall.
On Saturday 7th October twenty-five
of the club ran in the U . L . trials (at
Hamstead Heath) in a field of 73 starters.
The race was just over 6 miles and
was run by Littlewood of St. Barts Hos-
pital in 32.25. However, I.C. took 2nd
place with John Collins at 32.41, and
then Ted Wilkins 6th, John Cleator 7th. Jeff
Greenleaf 10th and Dave Hammond 11th. The
first new man in for I.C. was Pete Ray from
Birmingham University in 16th place follow-
ing Jim Bernard at 15th. The remainder of the
I.C. runners were found at 3 in the twenties,
5 in the thirties, 4 in the forties, 3 in the
fifties and 2 in the sixties. Both numbers and
standard of freshers were encouraging.
Last June Imperial College Sailing Club,
after some success at home during the year,
sent a team on tour for the first time. The
team was composed of the better members
of the club, and toured the West Country
and Cornwall. The team sailed in many types
of boat new to them including Hornets, En-
terprises, G P 14's, and [National 12's. The
weather was very encouraging and every-
where the hospitality extended to the team
was excellent. /The team members were
housed in tents and travelled in three cars,
learning the outdoor life in some cases for
the first time, in one of the highlights
of the tour, the navy was vanquished
in true style on their own doorsteps in
Plymouth by the team who won 1, 2.
3, 4.
Racing was cancelled over tne next
few days, which were not without amusing
incidents. Nigel Hill strongly protesting right
of way, argued with a 100 ton paddle steamer
but retilred honourably with verbal recom-
mendations to the skipper. The team was not
to be held up by such yokelish innovations
as ferry queues and on arrival at Saltash and
seeing numerous landlubbers waiting on the
wrong side of the road with expressions of
long waiting on their faces, swept past and
created a vacancy for themselves at the head
of line and continued with closed windows.
The last two nights of the tour were spent
in the attic of one Trefusis of Trefusis, who
also very kindly lent his off shore cruising
yacht to the team. The team were very glad
of the chance to sleep under a roof, the no-
velty of the outdoor life having worn off
somewhat. In all eight matches were sailed,
of which half were won not an outstanding
performances.
I twas agreed by all who took part that
the tour was a successs and should be re-
peated in the near future.
LA3SLE Y'S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
BOOKS
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G I N S T R U M E N T S
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1. 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7.
Published by F E L I X BOARD Imperial College, London, S.W.7.
Plates & offset printing by WEST LONDON OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road. London, S.W.6. Tel : F U L 7969

