16 Music Felix • 29 November 1999
frequency y/^
Only a few weeks to go until
the end of the year and
once again the thought of
end of year polls rears it's
ugly head. Here in frequen-
cy I can assure you that
we'll be doing the same.
Probably a best dance
album, best indie album,
best overall album, etc etc.
Yes, it may be unoriginal,
but we all love these lists, so
next week I'll be giving you
details of how you can have
your say. Early suggestions
for best overall album
include Travis, Basement
Jaxx and Groove Armada,
but who am I to influence
your choices?
... frequency...
we review music
As for competitions, well
we're packed full of them at
the moment. This week
we've got Metallica, Count-
ing Crows and Bryan Adams
CDs up for grabs. Then, in
the next two weeks, you
should look out for some
Beastie Boys prizes and a
massive Loud Records give
away. There's also no short-
age of well known reviews
for the coming weeks, and if
everything goes to plan then
our Christmas bumper issue
should be a beauty. Finally,
for anyone still looking for
clubbing ideas and doesn't
need a weekend off then
Alex's Cross recommenda-
tion should not be over-
looked. Saturday's will
never be the same again!
Mixed by Karl Tuff Enuff' Brown
Pure Silk
(Pure Silk)
After running things in London and ramming the P'zazz club in Aiya Napa,
Pure Silk unleash their latest attack on dance music. In pursuit of music
for the millennium they have selected only the finest in UK house and
garage featuring a number of unreleased tracks. Produced to appeal to
the wider audience, the mixing of styles will blow away all-comers. Kick-
ing off with Pure Silk's personal intra it establishes an irresistible flow, just
make sure you have a couple hours free before you start listening.
Currently topping the dance charts, the compilation is packed with floor-
filling tunes. The mix of anthems, new releases and exclusives means the
usual quota of suspect dubs and dry vocal mixes is kept to a minimum.
All tastes are catered for: the bass heads will be rocking to the phat b-
lines of Ifs the Way and tea Trumpet Thing, anthem lovers won't get
enough of Straight from the Heart and those up for the new releases will
be wearing out the Artful Dodger's Rewind, which is poised to blow-up in
the charts.
Karl 'Tuff Enuff' Brown is at the decks on this one and lives up to his hefty
reputation. One of the biggest names in garage, the master mixer adds
his inimitable style to the album, keeping it smooth for the lighter tracks
and letting the cuts and tougher mixes loose on the harder tunes. The
production is tight, making use of fresher versions of popular releases.
The double CD collection is linked by Karl Brown's intros and sign offs,
and there are also regular reminders of whose album it is with periodic
Pure Silk cut-ins. The clubs are far more suited to these effects than the
compilations are.
According to the exclusive tracks the future of UK garage lies in a collab-
oration between vocalists and the effects desk. These pre-release tunes,
including a Tuff Jam-Todd Edwards partnership, will keep the garage fans
jumping right through the millennium.
This is undoubtedly essential listening, a cut above the deluge of millen-
nium compilations flooding the stores. It is not often you can pick up a
collection of the old alongside the new, and with Mr Tuff Enuff on form
this is the definitive house and garage assortment. The word is the album
has done so well that Karl Brown has been called back to the studio to
record another hour of pure mixing. This will be released as a limited edi-
tion CD along with the standard compilation on 27 December. Get the
album, stick it in your system, lie back and let euphoria ensue.
• AWOL
Gatecrasher Mix
Disco-Tech
(INCredible)
Since the emergence of the superclubs there
has been no shortage of endorsed mixes on the
music market. It seems as if a week never goes
by without a Ministry, Cream or Gatecrasher
release. These mixes also always appear to fol-
low quite a similar line; they never seem to take
the risks required to lift the mix above the many
other mix CDs out there.
The endorsement on this release comes from
Gatecrasher. For the uninitiated, Gatecrasher is
without doubt the superclub of the northeast.
Located in Sheffield and winner of Muzik's pres-
tigious Best Club award for the last two years)
Gatecrasher is only one step down from the
household name that the Ministry has become.
However, the question here is not whether
Gatecrasher is a good club. It is whether this
mix is worth parting with fifteen pounds for.
Well, I'm sad to say this, but probably not.
One problem with these mixes is that there are
far too many of them and therefore it is only the
very excellent ones that stand out. Another
problem is that although many of them are
good mixes, many of them do sound very sim-
ilar. So, with Disco-Tech the package is to be as
expected - good tunes, good mixing, but sadly
not much to make it stand out. We get one of
the lighter mixes of the Bedrock classic Heaven
Scent, Paul van Dyk's storming new Avenue
track and a beautiful beginning to the second
CD before the mix beaks out with the new Skip
Raiders tune Another Day. However, these high
points are not enough to lift this good mix to a
truly excellent level. My advice for anyone inter-
ested is still to spend the fifteen quid, but to
spend it on Sasha's Global Underground Ibiza
mix or John Digweed's Bedrock mix, and leave
this to those impressed by the badge.
J Patch

