29 November 1999 • Felix Music 17
frequency y/^
Bryan Adams
The Best of Me
(Mercury)
Metallica
S&M
(Universal)
Well, he's been around for a while now, but when the voice of the rel-
atively senior soft rocker Bryan Adams rings out, fanatics will scream
maniacally, whilst the rest wonder why it's such a big deal. It's true - to
some he's a legend, but his world-wide acclaim doesn't reach every-
one, and delving into the contents of some of his past albums it's not
difficult to see why. However, credit to Adams and his production team
for this, his eleventh album, a dual systematic promoting the release of
his forthcoming single, title track The Best Of Me, yet also functioning
as a Greatest Hits album.
One wonders whether he's running out of new material - media hype
suggests the end of a glorified and successful musical career is nigh,
but then maybe a Best Of... album is Adams' best way of linking recent
successes such as Ooud Number Nine and the duet with Mel C When
You're Gone with legendary hits Everything I Do (I Do It For You), Sum-
mer of '69, and Run To You. Also included is the theme song to the
1 996 film Don Juan de Marco, Have You Ever Really Loved A Woman?
and the 1 993 joint effort All For Love, performed with Sting and Rod
Stewart, alongside a medley of highlights from past albums. The only
new tune on the album is The Best Of Me, which despite being pretty
good, falls just short of the expected mark - however it's likely to do well
and fly high in the charts as a result of the massive fanbase Adams' has
built up over the years (Summer Of '69 was a 1 984 classic).
The album really is a collection of Bryan Adams through the years and
you've more than likely heard it all before, but here it's quite conve-
niently all in one place for you, and if you just want to skim the surface
of Adams' music and take out all the best bits, then this album's defi-
nitely for you. Of course, it's all a matter of taste and Adams is liable
to become a victim of the fashion to loathe the extreme popularity of
successful music, but give it a chance and it's not a bad album. There's
no denying he's done some good stuff in the past and this is a more
than adequate presentation of it. Has definite Christmas present poten-
tial.
I really, really wanted to slag this one off. I mean, really, this isn't on. If the world's
biggest rock band playing live with a hundred and odd piece orchestra isn't a blatant
gimmick to encourage fans to buy two CD's worth of old material, I don't know what
is. This is Metallica, too, who hardly need the money, and have worked their way up
from nothing without massive hype and exposure. I wasn't intending to give this an
easy ride. But...
The problem is that this is really rather good. The concept works, to a point. A classi-
cal orchestra makes a remarkably good accompaniment to Metallica's songs. The set
leans heavily in favour of material from their last two albums and their-more relaxed,
organic sound is easily complemented by the orchestra. The effect varies from fairly
straightforward backing noise on Bleeding Me to more complex and interesting count-
er-melodies on The Outlaw Torn. There are a couple of new songs, which are pleas-
ant enough, but don't really leap out and grab you. More interesting, though, are
older, thrashier songs like Master of Puppets or Battery. These are metal classics, and
some people would regard this treatment as sacrilege. It sounds a bit strange, at first,
but the different elements merge surprisingly well, particularly when there's more than
just the original tune going on.
The overall sound, surprisingly, isn't quite up to Metallica's usual high standards.
Frankly, the drums are too loud. Sorry Lars, but there you go. The guitars occasional-
ly seem muted, too. It's worth it all just to hear James Hetfield singing the old songs,
though - his voice has come on in leaps and bounds since the days of debut album
Kill 'Em All, and he manages to wring even more emotion out of Nothing Else Matters
than he did nearly ten years ago.
So, on reflection, have they pulled it off? Not quite. This is a good album, which stands
on its own merits as being well worth a closer look. As far as I'm aware' there's noth-
ing else like it available. It's not the Metallica we grew up with, and there will undoubt-
edly be a lot of fans who'll loathe this, but then the band have grown up too. They've
always done what they liked, and not done badly out of it, and I'm sure that this'll be
no exception. The overall vibe is very different from their studio output, but there's still
the power and emotion that you'd hope for. Not perfect, a bit too long, and in places
a bit pointless, but interesting - and better value than most live albums.
Pete Gareth
Competition - Bryan Adams, Counting Crows & Metallica Giveaway
This week we've got all kinds of goodies to give away. To start with, we've got single copies of both the Bryan Adams and Metallica albums
(both reviewed above). Then we've also got a copy of the new Counting Crows album, and five copies of their new single. Wow. If you want
to win any of these goodies, simply e-mail music.felix@ic.ac.uk saying which CD you want, along with the answer to this simple question:
Why have the Felix offices still not got a network connection?

