18 Music Felix • 29 November 1999
frequency ^/^
Blackalicious
NIA
(Mo Wax)
It's not every day that a new music
release seems to jump out of my speak-
ers and bite my ear off with such cheeky
brilliance. Then again, it's not every day
that DJ Shadow puts his backing to a
new hip-hop crew.
For the uninitiated, DJ Shadow is one of
the most understated of the true influ-
ences of music today. His debut Entro-
ducing album has had an effect on the
music of the late nineties that is perhaps
unparalleled. Indeed, it could be said
that the music at the cutting edge of end
of millennium hip-hop would not have
existed without this mighty man. Mos
Def, Company Flow and Jurassic Five
have a lot to thank DJ Shadow for, first
with his lessons in tune construction and
sampling, and now with the emergence
of Blackalicious we see another super
act appear from the Shadow school of
beats.
Like Jurassic Five's eponymous Jurassic
Five, N/A is another album that will
soon take it's place among the classic
albums of hip-hop. It positions itself so
well with beats, sound and lyrics that it
is not surprising that the mighty Shadow
has had his paws on the production
dials. The first single from the album,
Deception, is a tune from the gods, and
a number of the other tracks stand head
and shoulders above any tune that any
other hip-hop crew has had to offer for
quite a while
Blackalicious? Absolutely delicious
more like. Ignore this at your peril.
What is it with even-numbered albums? I mean, as a rule
the even-numbered ones are the shit ones. Yeah, you get
exceptions to the rule like Nevermind and Led Zeppelin II
but the second album is rarely as good as the debut. Korn
follow this rule to a tee. Their first album was a cracker
with all the metal press touting them as the future. Then
came Life Is Peachy and it all went pear-shaped with too
much dirty sex and a dire cover of the War classic Lowrid-
er. Follow The Leader came next and we saw a return to
form, if somewhat samey and with an annoying first
twelve tracks of bugger-all before any music came on.
And now we've been given issues.
Someone really needs to tell the boys in Korn the mean-
ing of the words "progression" and "innovation". All we
have here is a rehash of the same formula that's been so
dominant on all three of their previous albums. Except it's
not as good the fourth time around. Jonathan Davis'
vocals are still harsh and pained on the choruses and
miserable on the verses, only he seems to have got as
bored with the whole thing as I have. He's not giving his
all to any of the tracks, even when you want to hear him
coughing up a lung in those scary angry bits. Munky and
Head still give it total distortion in all the right places with
seven string guitars, and David and Fieldy make up the
colossal rhythm section on pounding skins and funky bass
respectively. So yes, all the elements of the sound are
there, yet there's no life or feeling and it's gone stale.
Kom have fallen into such a big rut that the whole thing
merges into a big mess of noise. It's quite an impressive
wall of sound and the slapped bass/funky drumming
combo still has the power to disturb, but there is nothing
new. Okay, I liked the flange guitar on Somebody Some-
one and the bagpipes on Dead, but apart from that noth-
ing stood out. That's not to say this won't appeal to any-
one - there are still going to be kids wanting to rebel and
people who think the band are cool - but it's simply too
much like anything they've previously released. I'll wait
until their fifth album before I say they're has-beens.
Nuophonic Artists
02 - Label Compilation
(Nuophonic)
This compilation of tunes from the Nuphonic
stable is, as you'd probably expect, a bit of a
mixed bag. Most of it is in the same funked up,
jazzy, chilled out vibe - but varying in quality.
With so many different artists on this album,
you have to respect Nuphonic for managing to
maintain a feel - I can't help feeling that while
ensuring the groove continues, the quality
takes a bump occasionally.
While Moving Cities by Faze Action starts off
the proceedings nicely, with an acoustic mix of
Hammond and violins lifting you up, Michael
by Roy Davis Jr felt like I was being brought
back to earth with a bump. While the quality of
his bongo player is not in question, the throaty
vocals just didn't do it for me. Just to confirm
the trend, The String Thing by Soul Ascendants
is a superb track - blending Latin rhythms, wah-
wahhed guitars and some deliciously dark vio-
lins.
This theme continues for the rest of the album
- with standout tracks like the fantastically
cheeky My Beat by Blaze followed by the slight-
ly lame The Sky is Not Crying by Tiny Trendies.
The real downer is that Born Under Punches by
Fuzz Against Junk is actually quite a good, if
slightly 80-ish track - but taken after the Tiny
Trendies, even Paperback Writer wouldn't have
a chance to rock out. There are a couple of
stinkers in there - but I can see at least My Beat
becoming a bit of an underground club tune -
with those fronting lyrics, you can't help but
smile.
The compilation is a journey - if you are pre-
pared to take a little bit of rough with plenty of
smooth, smooth grooves, you will be richly
rewarded.
ID James IDD Christian
IDD
Joel

