29 November 1999 • Felix Music 21
Iti
Hi
Pip
MS
• 8 1 : . •
•
W0m
frequency
Night-ln @
Home
No, this is not about that
Leicester Square superclub, it
is about something much
more important. Yes, like all
good clubbers, even Boycey
needs some time off and it is
with this review that I urge all
of you to take some time off
every now and then to go
home and see your parents.
I think it was due to that awful
Monday feeling that prompt-
ed me to 'just say no' and take
a train out to the Home
Counties. Somehow, I even
managed to keep this feeling
with me all the way through
the week to enable me to take
that train. Anyway, as I
expected the weekend at
home was boring, dull and
uninteresting. However, there
is one thing I like about home
- it reminds me of how good
we all have it here in London.
It is also at home where I find
my inspiration.
Among the inbreds and old
people that flourish so preva-
lently in the area is the source
of why I came to London and
why I came to find my life the
way I live it now. I suppose
that some people may dis-
agree with the way I do
things, but if I don't care, why
should they? And a wise man
once said to his parents - if
you don't ask me no ques-
tions, I won't tell you no lies.
Boycey
Renaissance @ The Cross
... one of the best nights around...
The first thing that strikes you about the Cross is its tiny size; it has
a quoted capacity of 350. Set in four disused railway tunnels it has
a low brick-lined ceiling which gives it a dark underground feel.
All four of the tunnels play the same music with the DJ booth locat-
ed on the darkened main dance floor in the principle cavern. The
others serve as: a chill out area with seating/bar; a second quieter
and brighter dance floor/bar; and a second chill out/VIP tunnel.
Also available is a chill-out garden.
Anthony Pappa started the proceedings with a well constructed set
which slowly built up both tempo, tension and volume as the club
filled, by 1 am the club was packed and it was time for Danny How-
ells to take the stage. The first hour of his set consisted of good
though not necessarily awe-inspiring music, then around two he
began to really assert himself on the dance floor; perfectly judged
and mixed tune followed perfectly judged and mixed tune. The
clearly "ecstatic" crowd loved it and responded appropriately to the
music that was as good as deep house gets. Danny Howells was in
control and in command.
Ian Ossia followed at 4am and clearly did not suffer from 2nd DJ
syndrome his "trancey", less beat orientated and more emotional
style worked well and the atmosphere in the club was maintained at
its peak. Indeed the emotion got too much for one group of clubers
who fell into a group hug, then with tears running from their eyes,
raised their arms into the air as one while the breakdown built, then
erupted back into motion when the beat came back in. This is not
the sort of euphoria a soul-less superclub like The Ministry or home
inspires.
Indeed, it is the little things that make this club stand out from the
pack: like the way the dance floor is full, but not so crowded you
cant move, or the way they provide cool drinking water and not
some unwanted pound coin demanding attendant in the toilet. I
could go on for a number of paragraphs about how the little things
make Renaissance @ The Cross better than other places, but in the
end it's the atmosphere that makes the club and it has the best
atmosphere of any London night I've been to.
Recommended
Clubbing
Renaissance is every Saturday at The Cross from 10pm
may cost £1 5, but this still represents great value
6am. It
A/ex
Everybody need a bosom for a pillow, everybody
needs a bosom! Big beats, and fun, fun, fun are
to be had all over the place at London's clubs.
Monday 29th November; £8
Kickin' Latino @ The Fridge Bar; FREE!
A new night at my favourite Saturday morning
hang out. Apparently this night will be a hot
blooded one full of all things hot and sexy!
Whether it will match the uniqueness of the Sat-
urday morning crowd is something to be ques-
tioned though.
Tuesday 30th November
Feet First @ Camden Palace; £5
Jonathan and Eko rock this funky joint as the
place fills with well over a thousand student
types. Beer is two quid a pint, and selected bot-
tles just a pound. It maybe more expensive than
La Scandale, but you can't go there every week.
Can you?
Thursday 2nd December
Highrise @ Home; £5
Felix is visiting this prestigious venue this week for
the Highrise night, so next week we'll be able to
tell you what it's all about in full.
Friday 3rd December
The Gallery @ Turmills; £8
How the guys at The Gallery manage to keep up
the standard week after week we'll never know.
However, when the night's this good, how could
we ever complain.
Saturday 4th December
Renaissance @ The Cross; £15
If you've read this week's reviews you'll know
that Renaissance at The Cross is a Saturday
night rarely bettered in the capital. If you've not
been then maybe it's time you got down. It's not
as if you need the sleep...
To have your club added to this list just invite us
along, we'll check it out and if we like it we'll put
it down
e-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
phone: 020 7594 8072 ask for James

