22 Films Felix • 29 November 1999
Ali G, inn
screen •
Farscape TV Series Ali G, innit On Video
Whilst many of TV's most famous Sci-Fi series may
have emanated in the sixties and seventies, the
nineties has undoubtedly seen the genre's heyday.
A succession of high-budget, high-concept, pro-
ductions have generated massive profits for their
producers, and have opened up science fiction to
a much wider audience. Surely the prospect of
mainstream TV's latest offering, the Jim Henson
Workshop produced Farscape, is consequently
one to relish? Sadly, the answer is a definitive "no".
Farscape embodies much of what is bad about sci-
ence fiction (especially on TV) - it's characters are
more like caricatures, it's plot is generic and obvi-
ous, and the entire affair is far more concerned
with appearances than content.
Firstly, to the concept. With a backstory that bla-
tantly apes the seminal Suck Rogers, Commander
John Crichton (Ben Browder), whilst out on a rou-
tine test flight, is suddenly sucked into a wormhole
and thrown across the galaxy to a new space and
time. His out-of-control shuttle accidentally
destroys an alien "peacekeeper" ship, and he is
immediately thrown aboard a strange craft, full of
escaping prisoners. On board he joins the prison-
ers in their flight from the evil Peacekeepers (ie
Galactic Empire / Dominion), and slowly he wins
their respect and friendship. (Yawn).
Basically, Farscape consists of excerpts of every
other Sci-Fi series you've ever seen, patched
together and thrown into one ungodly whole,
replete with comedic fish-like aliens, furry Yoda-
esque figures and the obligatory love interest (who
goes by the inspired name of Officer Aeryn Sun).
Chrichton's quest to earn the aliens confidence
naturally results in his humanity and conscience
wearing off on all those around him (surprise),
whilst the constant threat of attack leaves the door
open for a stream of bad CGI effects.
It's only with programmes of this calibre that you
realise quite how good The Next Generation was..
• Dave
Ali G, (real name, Sacha Baron-Cohen), the inter-
viewer of the famous on The 1 I O'clock Show, has
recently found cult status in student circles. How do
I know this? Simple, you hear people using his
catchphrases. Often I find myself listening to peo-
ple ordering ponani, not panini, from the BMS
cafe. Often I find myself asking myself what flavour
ponani I want to mange on that dinnertime. Tuna
panini would definitely raise a snigger.
The humour derives from the ridiculousness of the
whole persona. He is kitted out in expensive
sportswear with the big medallion using words like
'bitches' to describe his girlfriends and using 'me'
instead of 1'. Ali G tries to act and talk like he is
someone from one of the darkest ghettos in
Philadelphia, but his hometown is the suburban
town of Staines in Berkshire. He talks of gang war-
fare between the Berkshire West-side massive and
the East-side massive - it's just plain stupid but still
hilarious.
This video has all the best bits of his interviews from
the first series of The 1 1 O'clock Show. These are
hit and miss, the funniest being interviews with the
chief of the British Board of Film Classification and
the ex-education minister Sir Rhodes Boyson ("Why
don't they teach proper maths in school, why teach
in kilos and grams when you should deal in
ounces, quarters and eighths?").
The best bits in this video are where he goes out
and about. His excursions to Wales and Northern
Ireland are superb, while his trip to see the tree
protesters is a gem. The music during the cut
scenes is absolutely brilliant. Not only does this
video poke fun at the entire gangsta culture, but it
prods its music as well.
To buy this video, you need to be a big fan. He is
an acquired taste, but exposure to his brand of
humour (if you are not easily offended) could turn
you into an Ali G convert. Nuff said. Innit.
H H I H n Captain Nemo
Ali G Competition
This week Channel 4 have kindly donated
an Ali G, innit video for one lucky reader.
So, how much do you know about the
comedian who plays Ali G? Well, you'll
need to do some research and find out
about the man himself to answer this week's
competition question.
Where did Sacha Baron-Cohen (Ali G) go
to university and what did he study?
E-mail film.felix@ic.ac.uk before 12pm on
Wednesday 1 December with the correct
answer and maybe you could be the proud
owner of an Ali G, innit video.
Winners of last week's competition have all
been notified by e-mail so go and see if
you're a winner. Go on, do it now! Details of
how to collect your prize will be contained
in the e-mail.
Odeon Kensington Offers
For those of you who don't know, Felix has
booklets that entitle you to see a free film,
once you go to see three others at the
Odeon Kensington. The booklets include
vouchers that will get you a large popcorn
and drink for the price of a small one and
money off Heat or Empire magazine. If you
want a booklet just call into the Felix office
and ask for an Odeon booklet. There's
plenty for everyone.
If you already have one and want another
one just come to the Felix office and pick
one up and make sure to tell all your friends
about the booklets too. Watch this space for
further offers from Odeonl
Helen

