29 November 1999 • Felix Films 23
Taxi
Moving from his usual role of director, Luc Besson writes and produces
his latest film, Taxi. Set in Marseille, speed-freak taxi driver Daniel
(Samy Naceri) is caught racing through town by newly promoted Police
Officer Emilien (Frederic Diefenthal). Under the threat of losing his
licence, Daniel is coerced into helping catch a gang of German seri-
al bank robbers. It quickly becomes clear, after Emilien's bungling
antics, that he is fighting for his job but more importantly, at least to
him, the heart of his stunning blonde superior. The resulting action is
everything you expect from a Besson production - fast paced, stylish,
original and funny.
The direction by Gerard Pires is excellent; particularly the car
sequences which are arguably better those seen in last summers Ronin.
At times you even feel sick as the cars race through the narrow streets.
This realism was achieved by Pires insistence on filming in real time
instead of shooting in slow motion and speeding the footage up. A
number of top rally drivers using 1 10 cars travelling at speeds of up
to 1 20mph meant areas of the city being blocked off for days at a
time. Despite this, the film was shot in only 2 7 days.
However, Taxi is not another Hollywood clone. The music is all written
and performed by 1AM, a French rap group with origins in Marseille.
The characters are old favourites, which lends a certain innocence to
the film. Emilien is naive and inept. Daniel on the other hand is street-
wise, fast-talking and betrays a cool that even James Bond would be
jealous of. Supporting characters are almost cartoonish in their stereo-
typing. Don't get me wrong, this film is not cheesy. It just shows a frac-
tion of Daniel and Emilien's lives without the need for character analy-
sis. Another great point is the obliviousness to modern feminism and
the Franco-German relationship, with a level of political incorrectness
that Hollywood could only dream of.
Originally filmed in French, it is available in the UK in two formats -
subtitled and dubbed. Generally foreign language films are better
subtitled but £1 00k has been spent on the dubbed version employing
the London accents of Danny Dyer (Human Traffic) and Jason Fleming
(Lock, Stock...) to replace the Marseille French. The only disappointing
thing is the film's length - a mere 85 minutes. But, had it been longer
the sheer momentum - one of the film's greatest assets - would have
been lost. Overall this is superb entertainment and great fun. Don't let
the subtitles put you of, it's a must see.
Katberine and Dave
screen \Z3
The Astronaut's Wife
The Astronaut's Wife belongs in that category of movies which don't
know whether they are a science fiction movie or a straight out and out
thriller. Unfortunately, the movie tries to combine elements from both
genre and so falls into the gap occupied by movies such as Species or
Event Horizon. Admittedly, I found Event Horizon slightly better than
this, but I thought Species was absolute and utter garbage.
The movie stars Johnny Depp as Spencer Armacost, an astronaut who,
whilst on a routine Shuttle mission, mysteriously loses contact for two
minutes. He returns to earth alive and is subsequently decorated as a
hero. Charlize Theron plays Jillian Armacost, Spencer's loving wife
who realises that something is amiss with him after his arrival from
space. Spencer quits the space program and proceeds to a new job in
New York, a city that he previously hated.
In the meantime, Jillian discovers that she is pregnant with twins, news
that thrills Spencer. But as time moves on, Jillian proceeds to experi-
ence haunting nightmares and strange sounds that seem to coincide
with reality. Her increasing sense of paranoia is fuelled by the ram-
blings of an ex-NASA employee, who tracks her down to tell her that
all is not well with Spencer. As Spencer's actions become increasingly
deranged, Jillian realises that she is in a race against time to find the
truth and to stop its consequences.
The premise and basic set-up of the movie is intriguing enough (if not
original) and the movie starts off well. The director Ravich, who direct-
ed Candyman, paces the first hour well and halfway through the movie
we get the sense that this could actually turn out to be a good movie.
But just as it starts getting interesting, the movie loses its way and the
final outcome just doesn't ring true and seems like it's been tacked on.
This can't be helped by some lacklustre acting by Theron, whilst John-
ny Depp, in the supposedly pivotal title role, is stuck with a thankless
character with very little to do, thus leaving his acting talents to go to
waste.
The movie is billed as a psychological thriller but it never seems to
achieve the thrills that it's striving for, instead settling for a slight sense
of unease. Like many recent Hollywood flicks, the main downfall of the
movie is the end, which seems like far too simple a resolution and
makes the film-watcher seem cheated. Staying for half the movie is
advised, but maybe you'd like to walk out before the final reel.
• Imran

