Arts Felix • 29 November 1999
method A,
Anna Weiss Balm In Gilead Fringe Debate
Whitehall Theatre - £1 0 standby - Charring Cross Tube Courtyard Theatre - £6, Sun. pay what you can- Kings Cross Gielgud Theatre - 24th Nov.
This is not an easy play to watch. It is one and a half
hours, non-stop, of confrontation and tantrum. The three
characters - a condescending and manipulative hyp-
notherapist who has 'recovered' a daughter's memories
of sexual abuse at the hands of her father - have a hard
time of it on stage, but they manage to make the tears
and fits seem convincing. The daughter (Shirley Hender-
son) in particular was very good, and her jittery unease
and instability were unforced.
You only see a snippet of the story- it's been over a year
since the allegations were first made and the play takes
place on a single day. The situation comes to a head
when the daughter confronts her father about what he
has done. Accusations fly between all three of them and
nothing gets resolved, which leaves a sense that little has
actually happened.
At times it is gut-wrenchingly moving, but once the wail-
ing really gets under way there are more moments of
cringing than anything else and you leave with no real
lasting feelings for any of the characters. Quite an
achievement considering the seriousness of the topic -
but the cause of this is that no one was sure of what actu-
ally happened. Everyone's memories were unreliable
and each had a completely conflicting story. You end up
siding mainly with the father because it's hard to believe
that this little man in a suit could have done the things he
is being accused of, and the therapist is so screwed up
herself you can imagine her planting false memories.
I feel it was a bit insensitive. To put so much emphasis on
the actual abuse when it was really talking about the
unreliability of memory almost undermines the suffering
of real victims. Although it does highlight the problem of
false memory and the damage it can cause to people,
the play could have done this equally effectively with a lit-
tle more subtlety.
Too graphic, too bewildering and, surprisingly, too
empty.
The Courtyard Theatre have put on a play about "the riff-
raff, the bums, the petty thieves, the scum, the lost, the des-
perate, the dispossessed and the cool"; they've set it in
Kings Cross.
I went expecting to meet the usual suspects: junkies, pros-
titutes, pimps, and alcoholics determined to make a life
from their unfortunate situation; perhaps a worthy version
of "Rent", but without the songs. Ba/m in Gilead was writ-
ten in New York thirty years ago, and the action has been
transferred to a Kings Cross all-night cafe. The customers
are mainly working girls - the economic engines of this tiny
world. Pimps and dealers, living off the earnings of the
girls, are also represented in the large cast
There is no common narrative, the stories of different peo-
ple unfold in close proximity across the cafe and yet have
little impact on one another. The dialogue switches back
and forth between the different plot threads with an energy
that contrasts with the gloomy situation, the central thread
following a half-hearted dealer and the American he meets
by chance over coffee. The American could easily have
been irritating as hell but Jennifer Merna plays her with a
refreshing lightness and grace, creating intimacy amid
crowded action. The piece is peppered with monologues,
the best of which provide real insight, although a few did-
n't hit the mark. Particularly affecting was the speech by a
young junky, which ended the first half.
In the end, the play had no resolution. A drug dealer died
but the stories had all begun again and the play ended
much as it had begun. Everyone was trapped in the circle,
which they had entered through choice but could not
escape. This production very effectively demonstrated what
it had set out to prove, but the message is perhaps less
fresh than it was thirty years ago. It is not that the situation
is less tragic, but perhaps, thanks to TV, it is more familiar.
The atmospheric theatre (with its sufficiently decayed set)
was largely empty - which is a shame as this is a play well
worth seeing.
It happened in the Gielgud the-
atre and hardly any body went
which, I suppose, is the whole
problem.
On the panel was Ben Brown (a
"promising young playwright"),
Nica Burns (representing the pro-
duction and management side),
Ian Brown (a director), and Tim-
berlake Wertenbaker (a more
established writer).
The debate - or general good
natured agreement, as it turned
out to be - focused on the prob-
lem for new writers of bridging the
gap between fringe and big time
success.
It was agreed that it is much hard-
er nowadays to make such a
break. Many reasons for this were
cited, but none were really fol-
lowed through.
New playwrights are often tempt-
ed to give the audience something
"familiar or unchallenging" just to
make it popular, to make it sell -
this has to be damaging in the
long run in the search for original
new theatre.
I think that the biggest problem is
the hit and miss attitude of the
fringe. What you see may be fab,
but could just be shite. General
members of the public are not
prepared to take that risk for the
price of an average ticket.
Judith Adams Tom Ben

