29 November 1999 • Felix Books 25
Cool Classics and Books You Should Have Read
The Buddha of Suburbia, Hanif Kureishi
Let me introduce you to Karim Amir, an Englishman. He is, however, in
his own words 'a funny kind of Englishman, a new breed... having
emerged from two old histories' - those two histories being English and
Indian.
We first meet Karim at the end of his education, when he is tired of
school, tired of the suburbs and tired of all the images imposed on him
by other people. He is sure that as soon as he leaves school, grows up
and finds a vocation things will be okay. But as Karim finally realises,
adults are only people too.
This is a wonderfully written book - satirical and anarchic but still gen-
uine. Karim's bemusement at the antics of those around him are well
conveyed by use of the first person. The book is more than just a social
comment. We can all empathise with Karim as he crosses the rocky
boundary between child and adult and comes to terms with what he
discovers on the other side. Karim is also a good candidate to tell us
about the lives of those around him because Karim is a drifter - with no
real purpose in his own life he avidly follows the lives of others, gets
swept up in them and then dropped again. As the world around him
changes from the slow, hippy seventies to the fast-paced, materialistic
eighties Karim centres on his own family and friends and the ways in
which they overcome obstacles to fulfil their dreams, and in some cases
find love.
books =
• ; He,;
Free.'O: • • Tube; W i m l .
,'V.
C3, iV\'/: / ' - ' a .
. ' . . . . • ,
• ' i . ; , ,
Kureishi has written many books, plays and films centring on life in sub-
urbia and race relations in England. His first, My Beautiful Laundrette,
received an Oscar nomination in 1984 for best screenplay. The Bud-
dha of Suburbia has been translated into 20 languages and won the
Whitbread prize for best novel. It was also made into a four-part drama
series by the BBC in 1 993.
ID Katherine
Join a first rate section, for a first rate future.
ces with 15% off the
missed.
A fast paced environment where you can have the opportunity to deter-
mine your own future. A place where highly motivated individuals get
ahead. A group oriented team effort to tell the world about books. The • MICHAEL f
Books section at Felix, where all of your reading dreams come true, and The globetrotter
you get free books. To join this world beating team, email rc97@ic.ac.uk ture'.
or stop by the Felix office at 1 2:00pm on Thursdays. Free, 0171 937
Waterstones, 193 Hiah St Ken 12:3C

