29 November 1999 • Felix Games 27
In association with
gamesMire.com
A WHOLE NEW WORLD
Games News: Long Jet Force Gemini
Awaited Releases (N64)
© react
World League Soccer
2000 (N64)
Only a small games section this
week, but as the pre-Christmas
games rush hots up the next few
weeks will see loads of eagerly
awaited titles finally hitting the
shelves. My favourite has to be
Half Life: Opposing Force. An offi-
cial add on pack for my (and pret-
ty much every one else's) favourite
PC game, Half Life. Never before
has an expansion pack for a game
been the subject of so much
expectation. From the previews it
looks amazing and I can't wait to
get my hands on it.
Also out this week is Unreal Tour-
nament. With loads of hectic mul-
tiplayer combat options and excel-
lent Bots to fight if no humans will
play with you, this looks like being
a strong competitor with Quake 3
for the First Person Shooter crown.
If you've got a little too much time on your hands this game will more than ade-
quately fill this passage and then some. A beautiful smooth creation, Jet Force
Gemini introduces you to a futuristic fantasy world where Starship Troopers
meet Star Wars with a hint of cult.
You control two skiing clothed characters (and a dog) around more levels than
I'd care to imagine, trying to blow apart giant pistol packing ants whilst rescu-
ing Tribals (furry little Ewok type creatures).
Jumping, bobbing, shooting stuff down and generally kicking ass to moody lit-
tle backbeats, this game takes a while to master but once done the controls are
like second nature. The firing is auto-aiming if pointing in the direction of vil-
lainous scum, and you can pick off annoying snipers with a targeting facility.
With a range of multi-talented teammates to find and use it is possible to tag-
team it through the different levels using each character's special ability. The
wide range of exotic weaponry, cheats, new levels and hidden stuff (apart from
the absolutely massive worlds - only rivalled by Zelda for sheer size) ensures
that there is enough to keep even the console hardened nutcase happy.
A nice feature is the added intelligence of the nasty bad boys who can be seen
hiding behind cover before shooting your ass. It makes their final disintegration
into fly covered body parts all the more fun.
It was only a matter of time before
the wunderkind Michael Owen
released a football game. Wee Mike
is fronting World League Soccer
2000 on the N64. The game has a
full selection of international and
club players from the world's premier
squads. It also has a variety of
games from exhibition matches to
league and cup games. I'm not real-
ly into football games, but what
made this one stand out was its high
quality of gameplay and the ease of
control. The thing that stopped me
playing football games was that the
gameplay was frustrating and you
couldn't pass the ball where you
intended. WLS 2000 changes all
that. The game is very fluid and easy
to get into. You don't have to fiddle
about with any complicated con-
trols; pulling off a bicycle kick could-
n't be easier.
And finally, can I just say that after
playing Rogue Spear multiplayer
pretty much continuously since our
review of it was published, its offi-
cial Felix rating has gone up to a
phenomenal five out of five - any
serious PC gamer must buy Rogue
Spear now!
So, aside from the gusset wetting graphics, atmospheric music and crotch
hardening size, how does it compare to the master (Go/deneye)? Favourably
is my opinion. Once the controls are mastered this stands as a ripping little
gem.
The multiplayer option is a little weak, and has a last minute rush-job feeling
about it. The control system makes it hard to handle the character when up
close and personal. More interesting than multiplayer is the 'cooperative'
mode. During the one player game, you can put together a robot named
Floyd. When Floyd is complete, a second player can control Floyd and help
out in the main game. Very cool. To complete the game, however, all the Trib-
als must be located which can become a little tiresome.
These problems will stop JFG progressing to cult status, however nobody would
feel hard done by if they spent their hard-earned cash on this little beauty. In
fact (after Go/deneye and Zelda) this should be a must for any self-respecting
N64 owner.
Chr
In addition to the slick gameplay,
WLS 2000 contains some brilliant
footballing venues with sumptuous
stadiums complete with cheering
crowd, billboards and big screen
TVs. The graphics are top-notch,
which just adds to the game's playa-
bility. The players are solid and
chunky, but have surprisingly fluid
and realistic movements. The sound
is quite good too but the commen-
tators get a bit annoying (too realis-
tic).
To sum up, WLS 2000 is a highly
playable and enjoyable football
game. Well done fellas!
ID Mark

