29 November 1999 • Felix Clubs & Societies 33
Outdoor Club
NIGEL THACKER
Two weeks ago, Imperial College
Canoe Club went off to North Wales
in search of some rivers and a bit of
fun. Here's what we found....
Following a tour round most of
West London looking for the White-
water Canoe Centre, where Garth,
Hicksy, and I hoped to buy our new
kit we rocked up as they were shut-
ting. Still, with £1550 in hand they
decided to stay open for a while, and
soon after we were walking out with
some spanky new kit for Louise to
trash. The drive back was made more
enjoyable as "Window-Garth", whilst
sitting in a traffic jam, went to throw
his head out the window to check for
stray pedestrians, without remember-
ing to check if the window was open
first!
Back at the stores, things had
been efficiently sorted, and with the
addition of our two new boats we
were off. Arriving in the hut, the group
became more lively with everyone
having a laugh, not least when it
emerged that Klaus and Simon had
forgotten their sleeping bags! Intro-
ductions to the large Irish contingent
drafted in by Carl, a few beers and an
Irish song or two later, we were off to
bed.
Off to the Aber Glaswyn river,
due largely to few other options
(although a clear club favourite for
trips anyway). Group confidence was
bolstered somewhat by the slow
scrapy upper section leading to a
kamikaze run on the Gorge by almost
everyone present. To no one's sur-
prise carnage followed, and viewing
the whole affair from the Breaker (at
the bottom) I could normally glance
up to see three or four boats pinned
at various points. Oh, and a nutter
(Ross) leaping from rock to rock fend-
ing off flailing kayaks and collecting
various kit. Louise was doing well until
she went for the old Hicksy excuse as
she tried to break (fairly successfully)
her paddle. The new curvature must
have confused the poor girl, who
soon swam. Other spectacular pins
were by Klaus actually on the break-
er, and Paula in a pretty vertical posi-
tion a little further up. A good fun way
to finish the day's paddling.
Chile in the hut (best yet?) then
off up to the pub for some drinks. A
perhaps-too-Iate attempt to get some
en-masse drinking games going
failed abysmally, due either to my
slurred organisation powers at the
time, or the apparent ineptitude
amongst us (I suspect a bit of both). A
sober rehearsal of some basic games
before the next trip should perhaps
replace a future pool session... Still,
drinking continued well into the night,
even without the impetus of drinking
games. A sober driver to take us back
proved novel (we normally walk, not
drink and drive). One more thing
remained before we could go to bed
- the initiation ladder back in the hut,
with valiant efforts by almost every-
one, despite Garth showing his age
(and hideous gut) as he struggled for
some time. I think a few girls even
made it up.
A late awakening on Sunday and
we were off to paddle the Flygwy.
Probably the most excitement for the
group was the sight of Hicksy scrap-
ing and bouncing down the Miners
Falls, taking drops in various posi-
tions of forwards, backwards, upright,
and not-upright. Then a good scrape
down the remainder of it for us, tak-
ing the odd opportunity for a swim to
relieve the adrenaline.
By five o'clock we had all eaten
lots, had a good weekend's paddling
and were in the bus heading back. A
fantastic first trip, so thanks to every-
one who came.
To join the Canoe Club email us
(see below) or join us at the Big Blue
Shack on the walkway at 7pm on
Tuesdays for Canoe Polo.
Contact Nigel
slappers@ic.ac.uk
Amnesty International
PATRICK BRANNAC
Richard Reoch, a long time Amnesty
International member and human
rights activist, recently visited Imperi-
al College to give a lecture entitled
'Human Rights: is the world getting
better or worse?' In attempting to
answer this question he pointed to
the thousands of years of recorded
history where heads of state tradi-
tionally enjoyed absolute power with
accountability to no one. This has
conventionally led to brutal human
rights violations such as torture. He
questioned the common held stereo-
type of torture as something that
happened only in the dark and dis-
tant past, such as that depicted in
museums such as Madam Tussaud's.
He referred to a recent event of tor-
ture where a man was detained and
tortured by the Turkish authorities
using electrodes attached to his gen-
itals and toes. Torture, he said, has
not stopped with 'civilisation'; today's
technology can be perverted to
exact a level of physical pain sur-
passing all previous efforts.
Despite such a pessimistic back-
ground, he showed a picture that he
says could epitomise a new way of
government. The slide was of a mas-
sacre in Khana, Lebanon, where the
slain refugees were covered in blan-
kets whilst unarmed soldiers wearing
the internationally recognisable blue
of the UN stood over them. That
international teams of soldiers are
now called in to investigate these
kinds of incidents is, he said, a bold
new step out of the age where
absolute power could not be held
accountable for its actions. The trial
of General Pinochet has shown that
further steps away from this age
(covering most of recorded history)
are being made. He concluded that
the UN, Amnesty International and
other organisations, can together
allow for an optimistic future where
the world really is getting better.
Whether this recent emphasis on
human rights becomes just a histori-
cal blip in an otherwise bleak time-
line, or the foundations upon which
this better world will be based relies
on the actions and involvement of
individuals who are prepared to
work for the latter.
If you would like to join Amnesty
International at Imperial College, or
would just like more information,
contact Alan (see below), or come
along to our next meeting, this Mon-
day (5th Dec.) at 1 pm in the Brown
Committee Room (top floor of the
Union). It's time to get off the fence.
Contact Alan
alan.cheng@ic.ac.uk

