36 Sport Felix • 29 November 1999
Medics, defeated by Bart's, defeat IC
ICSM Hockey
ICSM I 1 The second half saw the game such a lacklustre display from the
ICI 0 spread as fatigue set in. IC won hitherto league leaders. For the first
(Man of the Match: Sanjay) many more short corners, but the 1 5 minutes of the game all seemed
luck was just not with them, and to be well, with ICSM creating
A frenetic local derby ended in a countless strikes flew just wide of chances and earning a penalty
well earned victory for the Medics either post, much to the relief of the flick. However, when Keysell's flick
at Pad Rec. The game was played Medics. But with Meyer and Boyle was saved, the vigour drained from
at a consistently high pace, and holding the ball well up front, pres- the Imperial Medics game. From
with no lack of skill. The Medics sure was eased on the Medics rear- then on all shape was lost, the
midfield did a thorough job of nul- guard. The final 20 minutes saw passing went to pieces, and few
lifying IC's creativity, with Fishpool desperate attacking from IC, which more chances were created,
and Boyce in particularly miserly lacked width - thus playing into the The Bart's goal just before half
form. At the back, the return of capable central defensive partner- time was reflective of the malaise
Sanjay brought a solidity missing ship of Pappin and Sanjay. that had affected ICSM.
from the previous week's display. In This result sees both teams The opposition right wing
the first half IC started slowly, but progress into the BUSA Cup as the picked up the ball deep in his own
showed their potential, especially top two teams in London. Watch half, cut inside, and dribbled a
down their left flank, and this this space for more national good 50 yards unopposed, before
earned them a number of short- glory....? finishing sweetly. A nightmare. The
corners. These were kept out by the second half was even more dire,
Medics through a mixture of good Saturday 20th November and it was only the poor quality of
skill and good fortune, with Peter Bart's 1 the SBLH attacking that saved ICSM
particularly resilient in goal. It was ICSM I 0 more blushes. So the unbeaten
a short corner at the other end record of ICSM came to an end in
though that brought the decisive The first poor performance of the the most tepid manner. But with the
goal. A mazy dribble by Keysell season by ICSM saw them beaten return from injury of Boyce and
drew a foul from the IC defence, by a weak Bart's side. Sanjay, the team will not only
and Fishpool planted the penalty Despite a host of injuries, there regain two class performers but
corner in-off the right hand post. was simply no adequate excuse for also that all important shape.
St. Georges sent packing by seconds
Rugby - Sponsored by ALT RAN
IC II 97
St Georges 5
After last weeks disappointing (but
winning) performance, normal
service was resumed. We apolo-
gise for any inconvenience caused.
Another day, another bunch of
medics for the IC meat grinder.
After 30 seconds of sustained
pressure from the first whistle, IC
2nds scored the first of many tries.
This was to set the tone for the rest
of the match, with tries flowing
freely. It's getting a bit boring writ-
ing about tries, but needless to say
the score at halftime was 3 7 - 0 .
Then in the second half, IC
awoke like a sleeping giant to club
the opposition past the point of no
return. With tries too numerous to
count (the referee needed help in
keeping score), IC streaked
towards a century - if only we had a
kicker who could kick. After blind-
ing ourselves with our own bril-
liance, we lost sight of the opposi-
tion and allowed them to score
against the run of play, leaving the
score at 85-5 with 2 minutes
remaining. IC spirits were not
dashed and the seconds dug deep
to score two tries in as many min-
utes, leaving the final score at 97 -
5. There were hat tricks from Flo,
Hut and Tim Collins, but Gl Tim
was notable for his absence from
the score sheet and also deserves a
mention for match report avoid-
ance.
Dammit, I'm sick of beating
medics the whole time!
SCOREBOARD
BADMINTON (Womens)
IC I 5 - 4 QMW
BASKETBALL (Mens)
IC I 56 - 70 UCL
BASKETBALL (Womens)
IC I 44 - 46 UCL
DARTS (Mixed)
IC 8 - 7 Holland Club
High score: 140 (Chris & Tim)
Check out: 91 (Cedric)
FOOTBALL (Mens)
BUSA
IC I
IC IV
4 LSE I
2 QMW
• ULU & FRIENDLIES
IC I 1-3 Holloway I
IC II 6 - 4 Goldsmiths II
IC III 3 - 3 Kings IV
IC IV 3 - 7 QMW III
IC V 6 - 6 Goldsmiths IV
IC VI w/o RAM
IC VII more - less RVC
FOOTBALL (Womens)
IC I w/o
HOCKEY (Mens)
IC I 0-1 ICSM I
ICSM I 0-1 Bart's I
NETBALL (Womens)
IC I 40 - 26 George's
RUGBY (Mens)
IC I 9 0 - 0 George's I
IC II 9 7 - 5 George's II
RUGBY (Womens)
IC I 0 - 3 5 RVC
VOLLEYBALL (Womens)
IC I 3-1 UCL I

