THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION Friday, October 26th, 1979 Issue NO. 531
Lord Flowers, Rector of Imperial College of Science and Technology, in his
Commemoration Day address yesterday called for selectivity in making public
expenditure cuts in higher education. Stating that there are a few too many
universities and far too many polytechnics Lord Flowers argued that some
must go in order that others shall live ....
'If Imperial College is... chosen to go ...
that would be better than that we all
sink into the morass of mediocrity.'
At a well attended Commemoration Day
Ceremony, the Rector, Lord Flowers spoke
out against the proposed education cuts.
He called it "Distasteful discrimination"
which would make our partnership in
Europe harder to acheive. The effects of
charging the full fees to Overseas students
are numerous. 'It removes opportunities for
postgraduate work from poorer students of
the Third World. It belittles the substantial
contributions these students have made to
our research. It is wrong,' stated Lord
Flowers. Professor Abdus Salam, who
recently gained the Nobel prize for physics,
started off as an overseas student at
Cambridge.
He added that "I do not question the
necessity to reduce expenditure. I do not
protest that u n i v e r s i t i e s s h o u l d a l l
understand what it means in realistic terms.
'In a drought you have to channel the
available water to where it will do most
good. Some crops must perish in order that
others shall survive. Y o u have to be
selective. During the coming months we
shall therefore be looking most carefully at
our courses, at our research activities, at
our support services, even at whole
departments, to see whether they should all
continue. Unless we are selective there can
be no vitality, no growth, nor even the
maintenance of excellence where as a
college we have most to offer."
"But the main task of selectivity lies
elsewhere. It lies with the Government and
with the University Grants committee. The
fact is that there are a few too many
universities in this country, and far too
many polytechnics. Some must go in order
that some must live. If Imperial College is
chosen to go, so be it. Even that would be
better than that we all sink into the morass
of mediocrity."
At the presentation ceremony, itself, 383
students were granted Associateship of
City and Guilds, 388 of the Royal College of
Science and 110 of the Royal School of
Mines. Five people, including Jean-Jacques
Baron, "Mickey Davies and Sir Monty
Finniston, were made Fellows of Imperial
College.
FULL TEXT OF THE
COMMEMORATION DAY
ADDRESSES ARE ON
PAGES 10 & 11

