ADDRESS BY THE RECTOR
Chairman, My Lords, Ladies and Gentlemen,
I must first express our sorrow at the deaths in
recent months of eminent colleagues who
have given service to scholarship, to the
nation and to the College: Emeritus Professor
Gabor, Nobel Laureate, formerly Professor of
applied electron physics; Emeritus Professor
Sir Ernst Chain, Nobel Laureate, formerly
head of the department of biochemistry;
Emeritus Professor James, formerly head of
the d e p a r t m e n t of botany; Emeritus
Professor Mitcheson, formerly head of the
department of hydraulics; and Robert Pryor,
Professor of Mining and head of the
d e p a r t m e n t of m i n e r a l r e s o u r c e s
engineering. We mourn their deaths, but
rejoice in their distinguished contributions to
science and engineering.
Last year the Diploma of Associateship of
one of our three constituent Colleges was
awarded to 881 students and the Diploma of
Membership of IC bestowed upon 695
postgraduates. We congratulate them all on
their success and welcome their families and
friends who are here to join us in wishing
them well in their future careers. These will be
far more varied than many might imagine for
graduates of a College of Science and
Technology. For many years now, the
Merchant Banks and other great institutions
of the City have recognized the quality of an
IC graduate. The electronics, mechanical
engineering and computing industries as well
as the scientific civil service have also been
very active in recruitment of our graduates
this year.
B u t d e s p i t e t h i s m u n i f i c e n c e of
opportunities there remain some, as yet
largely unexplored, territories offering great
challenge. Our first lady Prime Minister, is
also that rarest of persons in the House of
Commons, a science graduate. I hope that a
few of you will follow her example and at
some stage in your careers desert your
laboratories, workshops and boardrooms for
public life and politics as members of other
professions have long since done. Science
and Technology can no more be kept at arm's
length from central decision making than
they can be confined within rigid boundaries
of departmental responsibility.
Nobody knows this better than my old
friend Sir Monty Finniston, our Special Visitor
today, whose leadership and inspiration the
engineering profession so greatly respects.
He will be pleased to know that among us
today are our first graduates in Total
Technology. Their course has been designed
to equip them to meet the present
requirements of a career in engineering in the
new Europe to which Britain now belongs.
We can no longer look doubtingly over our
shoulder with our backs to the Channel.
Acceptance and understanding of our
European culture and of the role we have to
play within the European economy is an
essential ingredient of higher education
today. I am, therefore, very pleased to
welcome among our new Fellows, M. Jean-
Jacques Baron, President of the National
Council of French,Engineers. If our plans
prosper, the education of our engineers will
become much closer to that of their European
counterparts.
This can but give fresh emphasis to our
long-established tradition of welcoming
large numbers of overseas students to
Imperial College. There are about a thousand
of them altogether, and most of them are
postgraduates under-taking advanced study
and research. But now the government is
proposing to charge full economic costs for
overseas students. They are proposing fees
which will be far higher than those charged
anywhere else in the world.
That we should all be aware of the costs of
the services we enjoy is not in question. But I
deeply regret that overseas students
should be singled out. This distasteful
discrimination belies the moral authority
which has for so long earned respect for
Britain amongst the community of nations. It
makes our partnership in Europe much
harder to achieve. It removes opportunities
for postgraduate work from poorer students
of the Third World. It belittles the substantial
contributions these students make to our
research. It impoverishes our society. It is
wrong.
I am glad in this context to report that the
that the President of the Students' Union and
I have launched an appeal amongst staff and
students so that we can award our own
scholarship to a postgraduate from the Third
World. The first award has been made this
session.
It is in this context also that I am delighted
to report the recent award of Nobel Prize in
Physics to Professor Abdus Salam who
began his career as an overseas student in
Cambridge. He has brought great distinction
to Pakistan, to Britain and to IC. We are proud
to offer him our warmest congratulations.
The swingeing increase in fees for overseas
students is, of course, only one aspect of
government policies designed to cut-public
expenditure. I do not question the necessity
to reduce expenditure. I do not protest that
universities should be excluded from such
cuts. I am concerned that we should all under
stand what it means in realistic terms.
In a drought you have to channel the
available water to where it will do most good.
Some crops must perish in order that others
shall survive. You have to be selective.
During the coming months we shall therefore
be looking most carefully at our courses, at
our research activities, at our support
services, even at whole departments, to see
whether they should all continue. Unless we
are selective there can be no vitality, no
growth, nor even the maintenance of
excellence where as a College we have most
to offer.
The Vice-Chancellor can be assured of my
full support in his endeavour to scrutinize in
the same way schools and departments of the
University of London as a whole.
But the main task of selectivity lies
elsewhere. It lies with the government and
with the University Grants Committee. The
fact is that there are a few too many
universities in this country, and far too may
polytechnics. Some of them must go in order
that others shall live. If IC is chosen to go, so
be it. Even that would be better than that we
all sink into the morass of mediocrity.
Mr Chairman, I cannot conclude without
paying a personal tribute to one of our new
Fellows. Mickey Davies has been a counsellor
and friend to me since I was appointed
Rector. He is greatly missed by us all and it is
delight to have him with us again today
looking on from the outside at what he so
long ably commanded from within.
THE LORD FLOWERS, FRS
ADDRESS BY SIR MONTY FINNISTON, FRS
It was George Bernard Shaw who in the
Doctor's Dilemma wrote, "All professions are
conspiracies against the laity" - a..u no better
proof of this utterance could be found than in
my presence on this rostrum. By a selection
process of which even the political parties of
this country would be ashamed, the
academic profession seated on the platforms
has conspired together and by autocratic
decision by person or persons unidentified
determined that I, a lay member of the
establishment temporarily invested with the
flattering titlfe of 'Special Visitor', address you
on behalf of the Honorary Graduands any
one of whom as the public orations to which
you have listened will confirm, has more
appropriate credentials than I. Graded grains
it is said make finer flour, but in this case finer
Flowers has graded brains.
By contrast, whatever you the laity may
think, the selection process by which your
honorary graduands have been awarded the
Fellowship or Associateship of this College,
is one of which we the recipients all approve.
We would express our sincere thanks for
granting us this honour which, whatever may
be our private view, modesty forbids any
public suggestion by us that it is deserved.
Some it has been said are born great, some
achieve greatness and some have it pinned
on them. In whatever category you place us.
we are grateful.
The term 'Fellow' has fortunately been
modified in its usage through the ages from
its attribution to a lower class servant,
peasant or lout to the polished savant,
t e c h n o l o g i c a l peer or i n t e l l e c t u a l of
academic society; but in the Oxford
Dictionary 'Fellow' is defined inter alia as
"one of a company or corporation who, with
their head, constitute a College and will
receive emoluments from the corporation
r e v e n u e s " . C h a i r m a n , y o u r H o n o r a r y
Graduands do not aspire to equality with you
in your office, but what in a period of
10

