considerable stringency for universities and
colleges should relieve you even more, is that
they wish to forego their rights to receive
emoluments from the College. To be
honoured and be paid for the honour would
be t o o . m u c h to expect even of a welfare
society!
It is a feature of age that whereas the young
know everything about little, the more elderly
recognize the limitations of their own
experience and know little about anything. In
addressing this audience, therefore, I start
with the disadvantage that I do not know what
to say which would be helpful and if I had
words of wisdom to impart whether they
would make any impression. Winston
Churchill, w h o suffered on neither count,
once said that in making any public speech
the speaker should concentrate on making
one point only, since this desirably curtailed
the length of the speech and at any rate was
as much as one could expect one human
being to assimilate from another human
being I would like to make two half-points.
The first relates to the economic future of
this country, a future which is already with us
and in the hands and minds of those who
through devotion to study during the past few
years have gained their first or perhaps in
certain cases second degree by examination.
It is commonplace to hear that this world of
change through political upheaval, but
political revolutions only replace chaos with
confusion. The major revolutions of this
century, in Russia, China, Cuba, Iran or
wherever, and even the demise of an empire
which fathered this College, have affected
fewer people directly and indirectly and in
lesser degree than the continuing revolution
of technology in the same period. The
description of this College - 'Science and
Technology' - defines the disciplines from
which change emerges in the modern world.
Even those who accept the regimes of
political revolutions are only offered as
recompense the fruits and benefits of the
technological revolution for which you and
others like you will be responsible.
The technological revolution which we are
now experiencing is, however, of a different
order of magnitude and kind from those
changes which have preceded it. Whereas the
Industrial Revolution replaced the brawn of
man by the power of the machine, today's
revolution through the transistor in the
m i c r o - p r o c e s s o r a n d c o m p u t e r is
transferring some of the intellectual qualities
of the human being to the machine. If G o d
made man in His image, man is making the
robot in his own. Many look upon this
creating conditions fearful to man and his
work. This is not my view nor is it in fact the
l e s s o n of h i s t o r i c a l e x p e r i e n c e . T h e
opportunities to relieve man of the burden of
work at its worst - the dull, repetitive,
mindless activities of routine - are a
consequence of new technology. Who would
build satanic mills today? Who would
condone the inhumanity of the technologies
of yesteryear? If assembly lines can be left to
robots why use human beings? The
technology of the future is about freeing the
individual not just to control the environment
in which he lives, but to engage in pursuits
more satisfying to himself and for others.
I owever, as a nation we have failed, in
human and technical terms, adequately to
translate into the industrial world the basic
knowledge and skills emerging from this
College and other places of change; not may I
hasten to add because the talent is lacking
but because the cultural environment does
not encourage our single national asset -
educated manpower. Since it is the world of
technological change which maintains us in
the style of living to which we have become
accustomed and which holds out future
expectations of the better life - physically less
a r d u o u s , aesthetically more p l e a s i n g ,
intellectually more satisfying - what is to be
done to correct the present inertia?
Many years ago, Heine, the German poet,
was asked, "If the world were to come to an
end where would you like to be?" and he
replied, "In England" and when asked why, he
said, "Because England is always one
hundred years behind the times." Sir, the
riposte is not true. The gap between us and
the rest of the world in standards of living can
be bridged by encouragement of the present
generation, but we have to adopt and act
upon two words essential to the conduct of a
modern industrial society; two words we have
to borrow from other countries because we
have no English equivalent (nor for that
matter a Scottish one). The first is from the
French - entrepreneur - and the second the
German word 'Technik' defined as the
s y n t h e s i s of k n o w l e d g e f r o m m a n y
disciplines to devise technical and economic
solutions to practical problems. In adopting
both as part of the culture of our society
defined as the beliefs, knowledge and
technology deriving from man's activities and
colouring our way of life, lies our material
salvation and the response to Heine.
By the turn of the century, most of the
graduates sitting in this hall will have married
and have had families, or by judging by
present conditions will at least have families.
The world in which theirchildren will be living
will be different from the one in which the
present cohort of graduates seek to progress
their careers, even to the examinations which
in the year 2000 may well be beyond the
comprehension of you graduating today.
Which brings me to my second half-point -
what kind of society will it be.
Your Honorary Graduands are of an age
where their contributions to the material
progress of society through technology is
mainly of the past. They would acknowledge
with considerable satisfaction and certainly
confidence that the talent and character of
those newly graduated today to progress
technology will move certainly farther and
probably faster than in the past. But when
your Honorary Graduands consider the
structure and behaviour of society in which
these new developments will be assimilated,
there is concern and doubt. Society has to
operate on assumptions of values which are
not based on natural phenomena subject to
experiment or control in the laboratory. We
know the techniques science, technology
and even industry use to advance themselves
but the conduct of society cannot be so
regularized or regularated. The criteria by
which society conducts its relationships
between people whether in the family, in the
community, at national or international level,
are based on the concept of order; order
implies rules and rules imply values which
have to be assumed and tested by
unstructured experience for their worth.
T h e c o n c e p t s of s c i e n c e a n d the
developments deriving therefrom have
questioned some of the recognized values of
the past which were based mainly upon
religious (or humanist) tenets. Organized
religions have lost ground and their tenets
have been neglected. Yet it is interesting to
consider the chaos which would result if
these tenets were rejected or given lesser
place in society. A good test of any scientific
theory is to determine the implications of
opposed assumptions. O n this test, it would
be an odd world if the Ten Commandments
were reversed; a sixty hour week instead of
forty. (Mr Terence Duffy would certainly ask
for a return at least to the 4th commandment);
and what would happen if murder, stealing or
removal of sexual restraint of the 6th, 7th and
8th commandments respectively were the
norm?
But one asks then, are these values of
themselves sufficient or do we need in
present society additional values which could
be neglected in the past but now have to be
accommodated in the new world of
technology. Has the changing world to adopt
new and additional values not just to the
present generation but to future generations?
Can waste of natural resources for example,
be condoned? Where do we look for answers
to these and similar questions?
One obvious place is a university because
here is a centre for freedom of thought and
expression; it is also the cradle for value
determination because those who attend
university are in the transition between
tutelage of the school and the assumption of
independence and responsibility of the
citizen to come. Attention to the conduct of
the society in which y o u will be living and
leading is not a first priority one at least which
cannot be neglected. The American author
Oliver Wendell-Holmes once wrote, " O u r
system of morality is a body of imperfect
social generalisations expressed in terms of
emotion." I believe a university or college
offers not just the prospect of material
progress by mankind through the exercise of
reason not emotion, but the development of a
system of values which can also be subject to
the exercise of reason and not emotion. Brute
force, mob power and self-interest are not the
weapons of a society in which education and
intelligence set the standards, and nowhere
are these weapons less in evidence than in
the atmosphere of a college catering to
learning youth. We Honorary Graduands
t h e r e f o r e offer y o u A s s o c i a t e s a n d
Diplomates our best wishes in the creation of
an improved w o r l d based u p o n the
knowledge and as important the values which
this College has afforded you - and hopefully
you have accepted.
Do YOU care about
the future of the
education system in
this country?
Come to an open
meeting at 1PM on
WEDNESDAY, 31ST
OCTOBER.
Contact the Union
Office for the location
of the meeting.
11

