WELFARE
COVENANTS - A GIFT FROM THE TAXMAN
If your parents contribute to your grant,
you can use a covenant as a painless way of
increasing the money that they give you by
43%.
Covenants were developed as a means of
aiding tax-exempt charities but there is no
reason why they shouldn't be used to help
tax-exempt people of which impecunious
students are the prime example.
The idea of a deed of covenant in this
context is quite simply that your parents
commit to writing an undertaking to pay a
certain sum of money each year for a period
capable of exceeding six years. After each
payment you get a form from the tax office, fill
it in and return it to your tax office and they
will then refund you the basic rate tax that
your parents have already paid on the money
that you receive under the covenant.
How to do it
The Consumer Association has devised a
form of deed which the tax man should
accept and they have given me permission to
reproduce it here. It runs as follows:
/, Edward Smith, of 16 Moon Street,
Blackburn, covenant to pay my son, William
Smith, of the same address, a gross amount
of 116.67 on each of the following dates in
each year, namely 1 October, 1 January, 1
April, for the period of seven years, or for the
period of our joint lives, or until he ceases to
be receiving full time education at any
university, college, school or other
educational establishment (whichever is the
shortest period), the first payment to be made
1 October, 1979.
Dated 1 September, 1979
Signed, sealed and delivered by Edward
Smith:
in the presence of:
(witness' signature and address)
It is advisable to follow this example
exactly, substituting the appropriate names,
addresses, amounts and dates of payment.
There are certain points to watch out for:
1. Y o u can't benefit from a covenant unless
you are eighteen or married.
2. The instalments can be paid at whatever
intervals you like but the first one must come
after the date on which the covenant is
signed.
3. Amount - this can be stated either as 'a
gross amount of £x' as in the example, which
means that your parents deduct the tax which
you will get back, from the total contribution
and pay you the rest. This means that they
have to alter the amount that they actually
g.ive you every time the basic rate changes.
So if the parental contribution is £100 and tax
is at 30% they woujd hand over £70 and you
would get the other £30 from the tax man. If
the basic rate then went down to 25%, they
would have to pay you £75.
The other way of doing it is to agree to pay
'an amount which after deduction of tax at the
basic rate amounts to £x'. This means that
they pay the same amount allthetime, but the
refund from the tax man will vary with
changes in the basic rate. This second variety
is apparently the most common.
4. The formalities. Y o u can copy out the
covenant with alterations and it doesn't really
matter how you do this. The important thing
is that it must be signed by whoever is paying
and witnessed by someone other than
yourself. It might be advisable if the witness
was someone other than your parent
a l t h o u g h it p r o b a b l y wouldn't matte.
However, since you don't know whether the
tax man will query it until the end of the tax
year when, in a sense, it is too late, it is best to
play safe. The other important thing to
remember is that T H E D E A L M U S T B E
S E A L E D . You can do this with sealing wax or
a disc of red paper which you stick onto the
deed. Your parents should then hand the
deed over to you.
5. The covenant can be cancelled by mutual
consent at any time.
Other Earnings
The amount covenanted - ie what you get
from your parents plus what you get from the
tax man - counts as earned income. This
means that if your vacation earnings plus the
money received under the covenant total
more than £1,165, you will start paying tax on
the excess. It is possible, however, that since
you recover basic rate tax at 30% and pay
lower rate tax at 2 5 % on the first £750 over
£1,165 that you might still make a profit.
Claiming the money back
Get a form R 185 (AP) from your tax office,
for your parents to fill in and send back. If you
haven't got a tax office look in the telephone
book under Inland Revenue and contact the
one nearest to where you live.
If you want any more details on any of this,
please come and see me in the Welfare
Centre on the third floor of the Union
Building which is open from 9:30 to 5:30every
weekday.
Michael Arthur
Welfare Adviser
PG
TIPS
The turn-out for the postgraduate group
committee meeting on Wednesday, 17
October, to discuss social events and P h D
time lengths was disappointing, so I had
better use these pages to try and get the
message across.
We are very concerned at the fact that many
students take longer than three years to finish
a P h D (some students are in their fifth and
sixth years) and feel that this situation is one
which must be investigated seriously with a
view to remedying this blatant defect. All
postgraduates in the college will be receiving
a questionnaire shortly so that we may find
out your views on this subject.
The Group also has a duty to stage social
events throughout the year and possibilities
were discussed at the meeting. It was decided
to look into the possibility of holding a
postgraduate dinner sometime and also a
barbecue on 5 November with a ploughman's
lunch as a contingency plan, should either of
the first two be found impossible to stage.
The response from individual departments
in claiming grants for social functions has
been almost non-existent. I therefore say
again that all departments are entitled to a
grant for social functions involving P G s
(apply to myself c/o Union Office). Last, but
not least, would anyone who is interested in
playing football in the park at lunch-times
please contact Martin Baggs, who is
coordinating it.
Richard Earl
PG Group Chairman
IG
/LIBERAL
/ CLUB \
The L I B E R A L Club can be contacted at its
regular informal Friday lunchtime meeting in
Stan's Bar.Southside.
IC LIBERAL CLUB
The freshers' ploughmans supper was a
resounding success with all those attending
taking part in a lively discussion of relevant
union affairs, including the incredulous
attitude of some members of the Union
towards aparteid in general, and the
atrocious rugby match played recently with a
South African team in particular. The success
of the meeting was completed when all those
attending joined the club!
It had been hoped to have David Alton,
Liberal M P for Liverpool Edge Hill and the
youngest M P at Westminster, at the meeting.
However, arrangements are now in hand to
invite him (with his radical ideas on student
housing) to address a meeting later in the
term - so watch out for the posters !
Two posts on the committee have yet to be
filled. These are secretary and ordinary
member, responsible for policy, union and
external affairs. The papers are now u p o n the
S C C noticeboard in Southside and come
down at 5pm Thursday, 1 November. This is
an ideal opportunity for all members to
actively take part in the decision making of
the college's most active and radical political
society. Membership of the club costs a mere
30p, payable to the Union receptionist
(Annie), or any of the club officers.
Becky Bryan, U L S political vice-chairman,
has kindly agreed to address a meeting on
'Education' (this is the broad title of the talk,
but I'm surethat cuts will be the main issue) in
the Union Lower Refectory at 6:30pm on
Tuesday, 23rd October. This meeting is a
chance for anyone with an interest in matters
of education (ie cuts) to come along and hear
a liberal's viewpoint and also to represent
their own point of view. I am sure it will be a
lively affair!
( )
13

