G O V E R N M E N T R E S I G N S A S U N I V E R S I T Y
H A L L S O F R E S I D E N C E O C C U P I E D B Y
R E V O L T I N G S T U D E N T S
by Fanshaw F Love, Head of our Student Affairs Team (^J^-"""^
Today, a world disaster has been averted at
the campus of the University of Reddon, near
Jekyll Park in London. Although to the
untrained eye, it would appear that nothing
has happened; I'm sure that today's
momentous events will be inscribed in the
annals of history. Squashed inside a dug-out
with twenty-seven other journalists, I've
watched the unfolding of these events. Let me
try to recap them.
It all began when the College authorities
issued a statement claiming that the student's
Union had instigated an occupation of the
Halls of Residence, without their sanction.
This was the culmination of two months of
s p e c u l a t i o n , r u m o u r , a c c u s a t i o n and
rebuttal. When I first questioned Miss Foxy
Lady, the student President, about the
occupation, she denied all knowledge of it.
Clearly, this was extremely subtle diplomacy.
When I urged her to reveal the motives for the
occupation, she pondered for a while, then,
almost as if she was making them up on the
spur of the moment, told me there were
three....at least. The protest was directed
against rising tuition fees, cuts in government
spending and last, but not least, Soviet
presence in Mongolia, she said.
It's been exceptionally difficult to tell fact
from fiction as all sorts of extraordinary
rumours have buzzed around the excited
campus. It has been estimated that a total of
six hundred students, and revolting students
at that, participated in. the occupation,
although some sources have put the figure as
high as fourteen thousand. This last figure is
highly questionable since there are only two
thousand students in the entire university.
Strangely enough, most, if not all, of the
students that I've interviewed today, have
also denied the existence of any occupation.
This is generally believed to be a tactical
manoeuvre on the part of the Union.
All the same, the atmosphere here has been
thick with tension all day. Though nothing
'revolutionary' has happened, we confidently
expected the insurrection to occur at any
moment. I was anonymously informed that
p r o m i n e n t m e m b e r s of the C o l l e g e
authorities have been reading the riot act to
each other in fearful anticipation ofthe events
to come. This morning I spoke to Don
Giovanni, the Dean and famous opera, who
was terribly anxious because the students
had made no further move. Their inactivity,
he added, was ominous. Indeed, he said that
what worried him most was that he'd no idea
how long the occupation had been going on
for.
Something portentous did happen at about
midday when Miss Foxy Lady left her
presidential offices and walked over to the
ladies' toilet. What did it mean, we wondered?
Was this the prearranged signal? It turned out
to be a false alarm, thank God.
Meanwhile, the news of the occupation
spread to the four corners of the globe and we
began to hear the reactions of the Heads of
State of the leading nations of the world. The
government of Greenland was one of the first
to pledge its support, but as yet no-one's
been able to determine to which side they
gave it. At this point, the Danish government
proclaimed that it would support the opposite
side to the Greenland government, whichever
that was. A n d of course, the Pope offered to
try to reconcile the two parties.
The British Premier, who is affectionately
known to her comrades as the Tin Lady,
expressed acute disappointment in the
'ungentlemanly conduct' of the students
Union for not informing the College
authorities of the occupation on the day it
began.
A s far as the history of student
demonstration goes, the occupation of the
Halls of Residence is a new and previously
untired method of protest. Its effectiveness as
a political weapon can be gauged by the trial
of government emissaries and celebrities that
have visited the scene of these tumultous
events during the course of the day.
At three o'clock this afternoon, the Minister
of Ignorance, Sir Archibald Balderdash,
arrived in his chauffeur-driven Rolls Royce.
Clearly the government expenditure cuts
have hit both rich and poor. He hurried into
the Union office, wher he consulted with the
President for an hour.
He told me afterwards, that their talks had
been 'affable, constructive and promising',
though nothing was achieved. After all,
because of this, there was every hope that in
the future something would be achieved.
When I asked him what step the government
would take next, he replied that he'd first have
to consult with his minister. Then I reminded
him that he was the minister. He scratched his
head, got into his car and was quickly driven
away.
By eight o'clock, still nothing had
happened. There had been no riot, no mass
demonstration, nor indeed the slightest
visible sign of unrest. This made us all the
more troubled. The continued silence and
inactivity of the students was a clear
i n d i c a t i o n t h a t t h e s i t u a t i o n w a s
deteriorating.
At the s a m e time, M i n i s t e r s were
assembling at Downing Street to attend an
emergency cabinet meeting. By now, the
havoc wreaked by the effects of the
occupation were well known: in the City, gold
prices quadrupled as the market was smitten
by a bout of panic-selling; the F U index
plummeted to an all time low of minus infinity;
the Governor of the Bank of England
committed suicide; and Marie Blancmaison,
the famous TV personality, gave birth to
kittens, who were said to be doing well under
the circumstances.
It was evident to everyone that the nation
was looking over a precipice. One false move
could set off a chain of events which could
only result in bedlam and catastrophe.
Yet as the Cabinet sat in deadlock, all
remained calm in the Halls of Residence. One
really must marvel at the cunning approach
that the students have adopted. It has been so
casueal that one was almost inclined to think
that there is no occupation. But of course this
is ludicrous.
Then we heard that the Cabinet meeting
had finished. A press release emphasised the
gravity of the situation that the government
faced,and assured the public that it would do
everything in its power to avert a major
disaster. Finally, it saidthatifthe situation did
not improve before the opening of the
grouse-shooting season next week, a
national emergency wouid be declared.
At ten o'clock, the Fondas and the
Redgraves showed up at the Halls of
Residence as a token gesture of solidarity.
The forces of freedom began to rally behind
the students. Arthur Slagtip, the Miners'
Union leader, was heard to mumble
something about 'taking their lead'. An hour
later, the radio announced that his men had
occupied their mines and had already
formulated a shift system. Apparently, the
Welsh miners, rather than becoming bored,
were passing the time by digging for coal.
The N C B were said to be delighted.
Then a few more celebrities turned up:
Eliot Gould arrive from Jerusalem where he
was playing the lead role in the sequel to the
film, 'God'. When I asked him for his frank
opinion on the students, he said, he'd take his
hat off to them, while Emanuelle said she'd
take off her knickers. This was at about eleven
thirty, by which time there were only a few
lights burning in the Halls of Residence. Not a
sound could be heard. The silence was
menacing. Obviously the students were
trying to deceive us into thinking that they
were not as revolting as we would believe.
Then at last, at twelve fifteen in the
morning, the drama reached its climax. The
government capitulated. All was resolved.
Rather than lose face by meeting the
students' demands, they preferred to resign.
A spokesman for the in-coming government
declared that their first act would be to
implement the demands in full.
When I rushed into the Halls of Residence
to tell the students of their pyrrhic victory, the
only person I could find was the night porter,
who was fast asleep.
15

