The scenery consisted of one main back
wall which was used as a projection screen.
Once or twice extra pieces of scenery were
lowered during striking setpieces that, sadly,
only lasted for a few minutes. The stage was
dimly lit for most of the production.
The tribal costumes were well designed
and helped to create a 'New Guinea'
atmosphere. The sloping stage, at the Royal
Court Theatre, didn't help much when a bag
of potatoes split and bombarded the front
row. Most of whom were left in a great
dilemma whether to ruin the actor-audience
atmosphere or pretend not to notice the
deluge of would be wonder-mash, chips,
roast potatoes, potatoe crisps, bangers &
M A S H , Belgian fritune, sweet potatoes,
french fries etc. needless to say the bag
reached the same grossness as formerly.
The play was light entertainment - nothing
dramatised, raising a few titters here and
there.
Outline of the play
The people of New Guinea are waiting for
the whiteman's cargo to arrive, the cargo
which they beleive to have been sent from
their ancestors (which usually arrived every 6
months). Unfortunately the whiteman comes
Review by MARIE-THERESE
to settle in New Guinea and develops the
trade between his home country and New
Guinea. The whiteman bears no cargo to the
natives but promises "progress" which the
natives interpret wrongly as "reward" ....
cargo ....
The years go on and the natives still receive
nothing - they turn to Sgt Ola, whose idea is to
get the people working for themselves again
.... A custom they have long forgotten having
such generous ancestors.
RAG
ARE
ON
MAGS
NOW
SALE
GIRLSCHOOL
DEVIL'S ANSWER
AGAIN - 25p
G I R L S C H O O L
The audience must have been the largest
since Fagin took his boots off in the small
room before the days of 'odour eaters'.
Anyway, having dissuaded certain ENTS
personnel from charging the bands an
entrance fee to see the spectators, in order to
cut financial losses, I sat down to lend an ear
to the acts.
The support's performance reminded me of
a time in my past, when a then new band
called Supertramp got a mixed reception at a
venue in Yorkshire somewhere. Trouble was,
half the audience were having quick orgasms
at the sound of genius and the other half
objected to being robbed of their 'usual
rubbish, predictable run-of-the-mill band
playing the same old thing, several times.
Only louder towards the end' bit. So they
donned their mordm caps (complete with
earmuffs) and made their displeasure known
peacefully.
Well, it has been said: "If you can't stun 'em
with genius - deafen 'em with bullsith!" and
whilst 'Devil's Answer' didn't succeed in
impressing all the audience with their
bountif ull skill, they probably owed this to the
fact that they refused to give certain
spectators their weekly 'fix', of bull.
Girlschool, a four piece all-girl band,
headlined this gig and were abounding with
p o l i s h , c a l m , stage presence and
exceptionally well delivered normal rock.
Smoothed over with a creamy layer of
professionalism helps the said rock, rushed
forth in large quantities. You know the
type:bass continues, big drum thump,
cymbal 'tisk', assortment of fuzz guitar
chords (no solos), all parceled up and
delivered at painfully loud sound levels (4,000
watt PA). Magic sutff and a real must if you're
to empty your head of all the memories you
can't cope with before reason returns to
assist you - just what IC audiences seem to
like (remember the walk-out before the first
encore at the UK concert last year?).
So it's congratulations to Girlschool on a
really good show; you well deserve your
money and Congrats also to Devil's Answer -
there are some who eagerly await your own
live set (due mid November) and don't be put
off by bad feedback - somebody once
remarked that a certain band would go down
'like a lead balloon'.
Look out for more ENTS gigs folks.
BERNARD BOGTROTTER
pics by nigel tooby
19

