01km #
D A Y B Y D A Y
Wednesday 17th
BL BALLOT
BL will-ballot 164,000 workers on its plans
to cut 25,000 jobs and close thirteen BL
plants. This is without the support of the
union representing half the work force. The
Transport and General Workers' Union will
not endorse the plan, unlike other unions.
NOBEL PEACE PRIZE FOR MOTHER
THERESA
The announcement of the award to Mother
Theresa of the Nobel Prize started tributes
flowing from all over the world. Mother
Theresa was referred to as one of the rare
saints acclaimed in their own time. The prize
money will go towards her work in Calcutta.
ZIMBABWE/RHODESIA
The South African Foreign Minister, Mr
Botha, met Lord Carrington and Mrs
Thatcher to express his concern over the
pace and direction of the talks. Mr Botha
would like to see the exlusion of the PF and a
swift agreement between Britain and Bishop
Muzorewa. South African officals are worried
about even partial power being granted to Mr
Mugabe's radical wing of the guerilla aliance
which in their opinion would lead to a while
exodus from and chaos with Zimbabwe-
Rhodesia.
Thursday 18th
THATCHER'S ULTIMATUM TO EEC
The PM, in a stark message to the EEC,
stated that the UK's patience in waiting for
reform had been exhausted and set the EEC
summit in Dublin as a deadline for changes.
Mrs Thatcher however, did not indicate what
action might be taken if a solution was not
forthcoming.
HOMOSEXUALITY REPORT
A C h u r c h of England report on
homosexuality recommends a more lenient
attitude to homosexuals. It supports
relationships involving sexual love, calls for
the age of consent to be lowered from twenty-
one to eighteen and says bishops should not
refuse to ordain gay men. The Church's
Board for Social Responsbility, said that
homosexual behaviour was sinful and against
God's law. Even the Campaign for
Homosexual Equality was 'appalled' it did hot
condemn the evils of 'queer bashing'.
Friday 19th
DRUGS SEIZURE
A customs officer was shot dead in East
London while involved in an undercover
drugs operation. Cannabis valued at Elmillion
was seized and twenty-three people were
detained. Extensive investigations in the last
eighteen months into large scale
smmuggling from the Indian subcontintent
led to the drugs seizure.
DR WARREN'S PROFESSION
Dr Warren spent four years trying t,o
persuade his local council that he and his
family are running a food and research
centre, trying to build a model of farming
economy to see how it will function without
machines and chemicals. The council
however, see him as a crank and doubt he is a
real farmer or researcher. Dr Warren falls foul
of the planners' definition of a farmer, since
his project is not commercial.
EEC REBUFF FOR PM
The British Government will be told this
weekend that its demands for drastic
reductions in UK'S payments to the EEC
budget will not be met. Although, it is
conceded that there is a problem in the scale
of British net contributions, EEC ministers
insist that Mrs Thatcher is indulging in
brinkmanship in demanding that other
countries pay more, so that the UK payments
would be roughly no more than what Britain
gets from the EEC.
Saturday 20th
UNITED GERMANY A LA BREZHNEV
A plan to neutralize and unite East and
West Germany is on the way, the outcome of
which could make or break the present Soviet
leadership. The failure of this would lead to a
far more militaristic Soviet regime. The full
scope of the deal involves withdrawal of West
Germany from Nato and East Germany from
the Warsaw Pact.
WBA HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP
Black American, John Tate, won the
WBA'S heavyweight title by outpointing the
white South African , Gerrie Coetzee in
Pretonia.
ROYAL BESTMAN
Prince Charles was bestman today at the
wedding of Lord Mountbatten's grandson,
Lord Ramsey. The bridegroom's parents
attended in wheelchairs; a stark reminder of
the summer's tragedy which killed Lord
Mountbatten and injured them both.
Sunday 21st
DAYAN QUITS
Mr Dayan, Israeli foreign minister, resigned
because of a disagreement over the
government's approach to negotiations
involving autonomy for the Palestinians of
the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Mr Dayan was
unhappy with the hardline Dr Bung, Minister
of Interior being given responsibility for
negotiations with Egypt under US auspices
and since the talks began was dissatisfied
with the intransigent stance taken by the
government.
RETURN OF THE TIMES
The Times and Sunday Times should be
back on the streets at the end of November
after almost a year's shut down. The end of
the struggle between the Times newspapers
and print unions came at 1:40pm with unions
claiming victory and management uncertain
whether the £30million shut down had been
worth it.
ANTHONY NOLAN
Anthony Nolan, aged seven, finally Ist the
fight for survival. Anthony suffered from a
bone marrow deficiency and despite four
year's struggle to save his life died in
Westminster Children's Hospital after he had
a severe haemorrhage. All attempts to find a
donor for a bone marrow transplant failed,
but Anthony's death has left behind hope for
others in the shape of a laboratory with the
largest register of donors in the world.
Monday 22nd
FATAL RAIL CRASH
A train crash in.Dundee led to the death of
four people and injuries to fifty-three others.
One of the diesel locomotives had been in
mechanical difficulty for several minutes
before and witnesses reported seeing sparks
from the engine.
GOVERNOR FOR RHODESIA
A British governor, if the talks succeed,
with executive power and control of existing
security forces in Rhodesia will supervise
elections in the territory. Mr Mugabe of the PF
stated that British supervision would be
unacceptable as Britain was not an impartial
agent.
US EXECUTION
Jesse Bishop became the third person to be
executed in the US in the past twelve years.
Bishop, who could have demanded a stay of
execution, died in a gas chamber in Nevada.
Tuesday 23rd
EXCHANGE CONTROLS GO
All Britain's exchange controls, except for
those relating to Rhodesia, have been
scrapped. British residents can now buy gold,
hold as much foreign currency as they like,
open foreign bank accounts and buy shares
abroad without incurring a penalty.
CANCER TREATMENT FOR SHAH
The exiled Shah of Iran is being treated in
New York for cancer. He is said to be
seriously ill and was flown secretly from his
retreat in Cuernavaca, Mexico.
RHODESIAN RAID
Zimbabwe-Rhodesian forces cross the
Zambezi river to destroy a heavily fortified
camp of Mr Nkomo' guerilla army. The 'self-
defence' action was mounted reportedly
because of a build-upof guerrillas at the
camp.
7

