THE GANG
OF SIX
Hi there, bureaucracy lovers! We thought it
was time to inform you about ICU's super-
quango, the Permanent Working Party.
These dedicated people are committed to
fighting inefficiency and corruption in the
Union and College and also hope to bring
several sparks of creativity Into a stale, tired
Union.
We are elected during the summer term to
sit on Union Council, and to hold our own
committee meetings. Until recently, the PWP
has been thought of as a committee formed
solely for the purpose of holding meetings,
but this year we want to come out of our shells
and demonstrate that we really do get things
done.
This year we epitomize every aspect of
student opinion, containing the fib, lab and
con club chairmans, as well as a C C U vice-
president. This makes us an eminently
suitable forum for kindling new ideas. We are:
Gary Dearmer (Chairman)
Mark Clegg (Hon Sec)
Dave Lyons
Tansy Hepton (Token Woman)
Mick Berry
Colin Palmer (Who?)
We are currently reviewing union places in
hall. Are these the unacceptable face of
'perks for hacks', designed to keep union
officers in luxury for the remainder of their IC
days; or are they vital aids to people with
important jobs? We are meeting to decide
next Monday lunchtime, and soon hope to
have a motion on the subject to present to
council or a UGM.
If you want to contact us about this, or any
other subject you wish us to investigate, just
drop a letter into the PWP pigeon-hole in the
Union Office.
Photo by Marie-ThSrese
Would you give money to
this man?
GUILDS
Thank G o d it's Friday, time for the
astounding well-written, highly informative
Guilds article. First, a quick look back at what
has happened. Four freshers dinners have
been and gone, all of which were great, with
Mr Mooney doing his best to provide good
food (we had five vegetables with our stock
and you could hardly tell which was which).
All the dinners have been well attended, with
those who went enjoying themselves
thoroughly. There is still time to go to your
own dinner if you are in C C D (Oct 29) or
Mech E n g (Nov 1). These dinners are an
excellent opportunity to meet your staff in an
informal atmosphere, have a good meal,
listen to some good speakers and find out
something embarrassing about the Exec and
other people.
On Saturday, we went to Harrods on our
annual Silly Sports. All those who went had a
thoroughly good time in participating in
some games. Nab really is a sadist, although
he does look sweet in a policeman's helmet.
Guilds took about six hundred and fifty
pounds for Rag, bringing our total to over
£1,500. Look out for the next Rag events.
Coming up is the1
combined C C U
Halloween party on Wednesday the 31st. It is
a ticket only party so get yours from the C C U
office. We have a bar until 2am and a great
disco. Make sure you get your ticket early to
avoid disappointment as it promises to be a
great event.
On Saturday the 3rd, we will be having a
Rag collection and on Sunday the 4th, it's the
B R I G H T O N R U N . 'Bo', our highly esteemed
motorized mascot will be particpating in the
London to Brighton veteran car run and you
have the chance to see the start of the run at
8:20am in Hyde Park. Wearing pyjamas to
show that you have only just got up, go by
coach to Brighton, leaving promptly at 9:15,
so as to welcome Bo in Brighton with a
rousing Boomalaka. You can then have a
good meal in a hotel followed by the delights
of the seaside afterwards.
Tickets for Brighton are on sale in the
Union office at the cost of £4 for the lunch and
£2 for the coach. Bruce would like some help
on Saturday anytime to help Bo into a
suitably shining condition to participate, so
see Bruce and bring some grease.
After this there is Rag week with the Guilds
carnival, as the final and last event, but more
of that later.
Bryan
Despite a rather disappointing turn out for
the last Rag stunt, we've organized another
for tomorrow. Yes, you too can stand outside
Harrods in a shiny black rubber suit or wear
your best spiv outfit to force shares in the
Underwater Company onto unsuspecting
shoppers for charity. Remember Rag is fun:
Threaten the aristocracy with whips and
floppy snorkels, pester the tourists with
bogus shares, but no matter how much you
can collect - come along and enjoy the event.
At the last ENTS committee meeting, a
motion was passed to make a violate ENTS
committee mascot. After much debate, it was
decided to construct a giant parsnip to be
taken on all RCSU ENTS nights out. Various
suggestions were made for the name of this
mascot, but the final winner in the apt title
competition was 'Parsnip'. And so, on Sunday
afternoon, the ENTS committee (minus the
chairman) set to work with great gusto. This
mascot is violate and so it is vital that we keep
it safe, at all ENTS nights out. Look after your
mascot and fight apathy with Parsnip!
Having got that out of my system, I would
like to encourage people to drop into the
Union office to help build the RCS Rag float,
this Sunday afternoon. If you have any
cardboard bring it along as well.
By now, tickets will be on sale for the joint
CCU halloween party. This is always a sell-
out and there will be postively NO
ADMISSION at the door on the night, so to
avoid disappointment buy your ticket now for
any of the C C U offices.
And finally a reminder to life scientists to
buy their freshers dinners tickets, before
Tuesday. Everyone who went to any other
RCS freshers dinner is welcome to come to
the disco after the life science dinner.
THE DOVE
The Dove is a small Fullers pub situated on
the Thames embankment in Hammersmith.
The pub has not changed much since it
moved from the house next door about a
hundred years ago. It still retains wooden
floor boards and the original small bar. For a
time the pub was known as 'The Doves', but
the present landlord reverted back to the
original name of 'The Dove' a few years ago.
There is a small garden at the back of the pub
overlooking the Thames with a grapevine
bearing grapes at this time of the year.
The pub sells the ususal collection of
Fullers beers, including E S B , a strong ale
with a distinctive taste. The beer is more
expensive than in most Fullers pubs with E S B
over fifty pence a pint. The service in the pub
is good, a cloudy pint was changed even
before I noticed it. Lager is not sold in the pub
on draught, only as bottled pils.
The pub is frequented mainly by younger
people, hense it has a lively atmosphere, but
lacks the feeling of a local. It is best to visit the
pub during good weather since it is so near
the Thames. The pub is within easy reach of
H a m l e t G a r d e n s a n d R a v e n s c o u r t
underground station.
3

