THREE SHARE NOBEL PRIZE
KUNGL. VETENSKAPSAKADEMIENITHE ROYAL SWEDISH ACADEMY OF SCIENCES/CINA
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
has decided to award the 1979 Nobel Prize in
physics to be shared equally between
Professor Sheldon L Glashow, Harvard
University, USA, Professor Abdus Salam,
International Centre for Theoretical Physics,
Italy and Imperial College, Great Britain, and
Professor Steven Weinberg, Harvard
University, USA, for their contributions to the
theory of the u n i f i e d weak a n d
electromagnetic interaction between
elementary particles, including inter alia the
prediction of the weak neutral current.
Physics, like other sciences, aspires to find
common causes for apparently unrelated
natural and experimental observations. A
classical example is the force of gravitation
introduced by Newton to explain such
disparate phenomena as the apple falling to
the ground and the moon moving around the
earth.
Another example occured in the nineteenth
century, when it was realized, mainly through
the work of Oersted in Denmark and Faraday
in England, that electricity and magnetism
are closely related, and are really different
aspects of the electromagnetic force or
interaction between charges. The final
synthesis was presented in the 1860s by
Maxwell in England. His work predicted the
existence of electromagnetic waves and
interpreted light as an electromagnetic wave
phenomenon.
The discovery of the radioactivity of certain
heavy elements towards the end of last
century, and the ensuing development ofthe
physics of the atomic nucleus, led to the
i n t r o d u c t i o n of t w o n e w f o r c e s or
interactions: the strong and the weak nuclear
forces.
Unlike gravitation and electromagnetism
these forces act only at very short distances,
of the order of nuclear diameters or less.
While the strong interaction keeps protons
and neutrons together in the nucleus, the
weak interaction causes the so-called
radioactive beta-decay. The typical process
is the decay of the neutron: the neutron, with
charge zero, is transformed into a positively
charged proton, with the emission of
negatively charged electron and neutral,
massless particle, the neutrino.
Although the weak interaction is much
weaker than both the strong and the
electromagnetic interactions, it is of great
importance in many connections. The actual
strength of the weak interaction is also of
significance. The energy of the sun, all-
important for life on earth, is produced when
hydrogen fuses or burns into helium in a
chairn of nuclear reactions occurring in the
interior of the sun. The first reaction in this
chain, the transformation of hydrogen into
heavy hydrogen (deuterium), is caused by
the weak force. Without this force solar
energy production would not be possible.
Again, had the weak force been much
stronger, the life span of the sun would have
been too short for life to have had time to
evolve on any planet. The weak interaction
finds practical application in the radioactive
elements used in medicine and technology,
which are in general beta-radioactive, and in
the beta-decay of a carbon isotype into
nitrogen, which is the basis for the carbon 14
method for dating of organic archaeological
remains.
Abdus
Salam
Theories of Weak Interaction
A first theory of weak interaction was put
forward already in 1934 by the Italian
physicist Fermi. However, a satisfactory
description of the weak interaction between
particles at low energy could be given only
afterthe discovery in 1956thatthe weakforce
differs from the other forces in not being
reflection symmetric; in other words, the
weak force makes a distinction between left
and right. Although this theory was valid only
for low energies and thus had a restricted
domain of validity, it suggested a certain
k i n s h i p between the weak a n d the_
elecromagnetic interactions.
In a series of separate works in the I960s
this year's Nobel prize winners, Glashow,
Salam and Weinberg, developed a theory
which is applicable also at higher energies,
and which at the same time unifies the weak
and electromagnetic interactions in a
common formalism. Glashow, Salam and
Weinberg started from earlier contributions
by other scientists. Of special importance
was a generalization of the so-called gauge
p r i n c i p l e for the d e s c r i p t i o n of the
e l e c t r o m a g n e t i c i n t e r a c t i o n . T h i s
genrealization was worked out around the
middle of the I950s by Yang and Mills in USA.
After the fundamental work in the I960s the
theory was made in I97I by the young Dutch
physicist't Hooft.
The theory predicts among other things the
existence of a new type of weak interaction, in
which the reacting particles do not change
their charges. This behaviour is similar to
what happens in the electromagnetic
interaction, and one says that the interaction
proceeds via a neutral current. O n e should
contrast this with the beta-decay of the
neutron, where the charge is altered when the
neutron is changed into a proton.
First Observation of the Weak Neutral
Current
The first observation of an effect ofthe new
type of weak interaction was made in I973 at
the European nuclear research laboratory,
C E R N , in Geneva in an experiment where
nuclei were bombarded with a beam of
neutrinos. Since then a series of neutrino
experiments at Cern and at the Fermi
Laboratory near Chicago have given results
in good agreement with theory. Other
laboratories have also made successful tests
of effects of the weak neutral current
interaction. Of special interest is a result,
published in the summer of I978, of an
experiment at the electron accelerator at
S L A C in Stanford, USA. In this experiment
the scattering of high energy electrons on
deuterium nuclei was studied and an effect
due to • a direct interplay between the
electronmagnetic and weak parts of the
unified interaction could be observed.
Interaction Carried by Particles
An important consequence of the theory is
that the weak interaction is carried by
particles having some properties in common
with t h e p h o t o n , w h i c h carries t h e
e l e c t r o m a g n e t i c i n t e r a c t i o n b e t w e e n
charged particles. These so-called weak
vector bosons differ from the massless
photon primarily by having a large mass; this
corresponds to the short range of the weak
interaction. The theory predicts masses of
the order of one hundred proton masses, but
today's particle accelerators are not powerful
enough to be able to produce these particles.
The contributions awarded trfis year's
Nobel Prize in physics have been of great
importance for the intense development of
particle physics in this decade.
Sheldon L Glashow: Born in New York on
December 5th, I932; P h D from Harvard
University I959; Professor in physics at the
Lyman Laboratory, Harvard University, since
I967.
Address
Professor Sheldon L Glashow
Lyman Laboratory,
Harvard University
Cambridge, Mass. U S A
Abdus Salam: Born in Jhang, Pakistan on
January 29, I926; P h D from Cambridge
University, Great Britain, 1952; Professor in
theoretical physics at the Irpperial College
of Sciences and Technology in London since
I957, and Director of the International Centre
for Theoretical Physics in Trieste, Italy.
Address
Professor Abdus Salam
International Centre for Theoretical Physics
PO Box 586
Miramare
I-34I00 Trieste
Italy
Steven Weinberg: Born in New York on May
3rd, 1933; P h D from Princeton University
I957; Higgins Professor in physics at Harvard
University since I973.
Address
Professor Steven Weinberg
Department of Physics
Harvard University
Cambridge, Mass. U S A
9

