Anti-
Apartheid
IN RESPONSE to an overwhelming vote at an IC
U G M and following pressure from the Association
of University Teachers, the meeting of the Board
of Governors at the end of last term discussed the
admission of South African students to the MSc
course in Nuclear Fuels Technology. Under
pressure from the Rector, the meeting decided to
continue the present policy of admitting Souf
African students. Earlier this term, represei
tative groups from AUT and ICU (including Joh
Passmore) were invited to discuss with the Recto:
his objections to their proposals.
Briefly, these were:
1. The Nuclear Technology course is not
directly applicable to the production of nuclear
weapons.
2. The exclusion of students from any course
was an infringement of academic freedom.
3. Exlusions of students from a course at IC
would only send them elsewhere and would not
really affect South Africa's progress towards the
bomb.
Our criticisms of these points may be
summarised as follows:
1. This course inevitably has a close
connection with nuclear industry, and associated
techniques will be adapted for the production of
weapons grade fuel — and expertise thus
provided to South Africa will be a real
encouragement towards the development of the
apartheid bomb.
2. The anti-apartheid movement has details of
plans made by the South African government for
detonation, of nuclear explosions within South
Africa aimed at areas of black population.
3. South Africa is at present at war with
neighbouring black states of Mozambique,
Angola and Zambia and has stated that it is
prepared to use extreme measures to maintain its
security.
4. Academic freedom must be quantative, and
by supporting the security of the present South
African regime we support the exclusion of a
large majority of its population from the academic
freedom that we expect.
5. IC has in its hands the means to demon-
strate support for UN resolutions deploring
nuclear collaboration with South Africa, and to
have a real affect on the rate of nuclear arms
prolifertion (and hence world peace) and on an
inhuman, racist and undemocratic regime.
Bob Hughes, MP, Chairman of the Anti-
Apartheid Movement recently received a letter
External Affairs
THE ELECTIONS for the posts of secretary and
four ordinary members of the External Affairs
Committee are to be held at the first UGM of
next term, on Thursday, April 30. Papers are now
up on the noticeboard in the Lower Lounge.
The Committee's tasks as I see them are
mainly: the discussion and formulation of draft
policy on issues affecting students which are
outside College, e.g. grants, overseas students'
fees, etc.; the coordination of relations with
outside bodies, especially student bodies such as
ULU and NUS, and also the University of London
authorities. There are other areas (external affairs
is a very general brief) but these are the main
ones.
The secretary and four ordinary members,
together with the President, EAO and ULU
Representative, form the ICU delegation to ULU
General Union Council (GUC), formerly SRC.
This is the central policy making body of ULU,
and has an executive including three sabbaticals.
It consists of delegates from all colleges in the
University, and meets about two or three times a
term. It provides an opportunity for IC students
to see what.real union hacks are like, being much
more openly political than ICU. The IC delegation
is often an 'oasis of reason amidst a desert of
extremism', or put in a less literary way we are
from the United Nations Special Committee
against Apartheid specifically on the subject of
the IC'situtation.
The letter expressed total support for the Anti-
apartheid movement on this issue, and
specifically commended both ICU and the IC
branch of AUT "for demanding an end to the
training of South African nuclear physicts".
The IC Anti-Apartheid Group intends to
continue its campaign with a petition in College
prior to a fresh approach to the Board of
Governors and Board of Studies, and has
prepared a form letter for individuals to send to
their home MPs to encourage raising the question
in the House of Commons.
Dear M r Hughes
I have r e c e i v e d y o u r letter of 19 J a n u a r y 1981
concerning the actions of the Anti-Apartheid Movement
(a) with respect to the advertisement in the Daily
Telegraph by the Electricity Supply Commission of
South Africa and the South African Atomic Energy
Board for nuclear technicians and engineers; and (b) the
training of South African nuclear physicist in reactor
physics at Imperial College.
I believe that these a d v e r t i s e m e n t s a n d training
courses raise issues of great magnitude.
Assistance to the racist regime in South Africa in the
nuclear field is clearly a flagrant violation of numerous
resolutions of the United Nations. It is, moreover, a
hostile act against the oppressed majority in South Africa
and, indeed, against all African states which have sought
the denuclearization of Africa with a view to make their
continent free from nuclear weapns. Arguments based
o n d i s t i n c t i o n b e t w e e n s o - c a l l e d " p e a c e f u l " a n d
"military" developments are little more than sophistry
since the Pretoria regime is feverishly trying to acquire
nuclear weapon capability in defiance of appeals by the
Western Powers themselves.
I am surprised that the United Kingdom Government
has not taken action to stop all nuclear collaboration
with South Africa. It was twenty years ago that the South
African regime left the Commonwealth in order to
continue racist domination without hindrance, and yet
S o u t h A f r i c a s e e m s to c o n t i n u e to enjoy special
privileges in many ways comparable, if not better, than
she used to enjoy as a Member of the Commonwealth, to
the detriment of the most vital interests of the South
African people and the independent African States. One
would have thought that Governments which profess
concern for peaceful solutions and even oppose armed
resistance by the oppressed people, would at least be
scrupulous in denying assistance to the racist regime.
I a m heartened by the commendable vigilance and
a c t i o n s of the A n t i - A p a r t h e i d M o v e m e n t to stop
collaboration with South Africa. I would also like to
commend, o n behalf of the Special Committee against
Apartheid, the Students' Union at Imperial College and
the Imperial C o l l e g e B r a n c h of the A s s o c i a t i o n of
U n i v e r s i t y T e a c h e r s for d e m a n d i n g an e n d to the
training of South African nuclear physicists.
I wish to assure you that the Special Committee will
give utmost attention to the information provided by you
with a view to further action.
Y o u r s sincerly
B Akporode Clark
Chairman, Special Committee Against Apartheid
often the only major college to put forward
pragmatic views. However, if you enjoy political
debating then it can be fun, and it gives an
opportunity to meet people from other colleges.
If you are interested in standing for the
Committee then please ask either John Passmore
or myself for further details. However, before you
do consider it, please make sure that you are
prepared to attend meetings (or at least send
apologies). You cannot expect to sit on a
committee without putting some time and effort
in, so be prepared to do your bit. Having said that
I would like to encourage as many people as
possible to stand, it is a good 'first' Union post as
it is often better to have had no previous
experience and so be able to put forward a new
opinion on things.
Martin Taylor
External Affairs Officer
SFSoc
This bulletin was not by Ken Mann and has
hence been edited down as it did not come up to
Ken's usual high standard.
There is a BSFA Meeting on Friday, March 20. I
Meet Hammersmith Tube 7:30pm (I'm sure you'll I
have a lot in common).
Compiled by Phil Webb
Results
P W D L G F G A
IC Rugby
1st 29 12 1 16 312 430
2nd 28 11 1 16 287 421
IC Football
1st 21 16 3 2 63 20
2nd 20 17 2 1 85 21
3rd 20 7 4 9 31 37
4th 16 13 1 2 61 30
5th 15 13 2 0 69 12
6th 13 11 1 1 38 18
IC Hockey
1st 33 23 3 7 103 43
2nd 15 9 0 6 39 24
3rd 12 5 3 4 22 21
RSM Football
1st 17 11 0 6 49 41
2nd 12 9 0 3 47 19
Guilds Rugby
16 4 0 12 124 302
IC Basketball
6 1 0 5
IC Squash
1st 18 10 1 7 — —
2nd 18 6 0 12 — —
3rd 18 13 0 5 — —
4th 2 1 0 1 — —
Ladies 2 1 0 1 — —
IC Fencing
Foil 6 6 0 0 52 21
Epee 2 0 0 2 6 12
Table Tennis
1st 15 12 0 3 — —
2nd 16 11 0 5 — —
3rd 13 7 0 6 — —
4th 19 17 0 2 — —
5th 16 4 0 12 — —
IC Water Polo
12 6 3 3 61 37
IC Sailing
12 7 0 5 — —
Badminton
MONDAY, March 9 saw a friendly match
against Dublin University at IC. The match
consisted of men's single and doubles, ladies'
doubles and mixed, with mixed fortunes
throughout. The men's doubles were drawn
3-3, and Wong won his singles game to go
with a 100% record in the men's doubles
partnered by Bull.
The ladies' doubles were rather less
successful, losing 0-4, but not without a
fight. The mixed doubles resulted in a 1-3 loss
for IC, with Morris and Ions winning our only
game.
Thus, a most enjoyable match and evening
resulted in a 5-10 loss for IC.
SQUAD: Mitchell, Ridd, Horrocks, Ions,
Cooper, Wong, Bull, Morris, Chiang, William-
son, Haegar.
Page 6 FELIX, March 20,1981

