In a year as Sports Editor I:
Edited as I saw fit, cutting out crudi-
ties and insults . . . and
Christian names (I).
Questioned the antics of the Rugby Club
and their free spending — and
their annual "loss" of shirts.
Remember the hassle c a u s e d by the
Captain of Volleyball concern-
ing the new court — yet have
received no articles from his
Club all year.
Congratulate the Football Club on an amaz-
ingly successful season (five
of their six teams winning their
leagues) and the Hockey Club
on the performance of their
first team.
Thank all the clubs and individuals
who have sent in articles, with
special thanks to Jim Beer for
his excellent reports.
Am Trying to find a Sports Editor for next
session (see below).
IC Sailing Win
Bradford Barrel
IC mustered their strongest team, calling on
their ULSC sailors (Ajderian, Baxter, Lewis)
to compete in the Bradford Barrel. This is a
prestigious international event in which the
invited universities compete for a barrel
during two days of debauchery.
Being Friday 13 however, all was not well. A
transport and monetary problem started the
ball rolling. After a famous Bradford curry,
the team returned in a merry spirit to discover
that Ajderian's van had been stolen from the
University car park. Five members' sailing
gear, sleeping bags, etc., and vital course-
work were taken with the van.
The first race against the Dutch team
resulted in a procession in the light airs with
Murray and the reserve Younghusband
leading the pack. Baxter and Chadwick
looked uncomfortable in second place as
posing became very difficult in the becalmed
conditions. Ajderian and Kennedy took third.
Lewis became a hero and sailed in all the
other races, leading IC to five convincing
victories out of five, in the freshening breeze.
Sunday started with most of the IC team
joining the Chunder boat and a victory
against Edinburgh. The 'biggie' was against
Liverpool, which due to lack of concentration
IC were marginally defeated. All was not lost
as Salford beat Liverpool in the next race.
Everything hinged on the last race between
IC and Salford. Lewis and Murray would have
set up an excellent start had they not been
too early, confusion led to Murray and Baxter
restarting in fifth and sixth. Baxter and
Chadwick produced some skilful tacking and
with the aid of Lewis they sailed into first and
second positions at the windward mark but
just as easily lost it again. Salford took a
green but were now winning on the water and
were so, until Murray managed to slip into
third place on the line following Lewis to give
IC 2, 3, 4 and the Barrel.
The team would like to thank Bradford for
putting on a splendid weekend and for
helping us out with the kit. Our valueless
team coach, Paul Burton and the Bradford
curries also deserve a mention for providing
so much entertainment.
T E A M : Ajderian, Baxter, Chadwick,
Kennedy, Lewis, Murray. Reserve: Young-
husband. Coach: Burton.
Ladies Rugby
Win Plate
AT 8:00 on Sunday morning the intrepid
ladies' rugby 14 set off for the Second Annual
Loughborough Women's Rugby Tournament.
Twelve teams took part, including Santa
Monica, an American team who are currently
touring England. We were unlucky to draw
Santa Monica in the first round, when we
were beaten 22-0. Santa Monica went on to
win the Whitbread Trophy.
We were now in the plate competition,
where we had a bye in the first round, and
then played Keele in the semi-final. We were
the dominant team throughout the match,
winning almost all the set pieces. They
defended well however and we could not
quite break through to score. Andree was
unlucky not to be awarded a try, when the
touch judge thought she put her foot in touch
just before grounding the ball in the corner.
There was no score at the end, so the game
had to be decided on place kicks, as they
would not allow us to play extra time. Then
some good kicking by Andree decided the
match for us, taking us to the final of the
plate.
In the final we met York, whose very strong
pack gave us some trouble initially. However
we all played very hard and soon began to
dominate the match. Again we were unlucky
not to score, and this match too was decided
on place kicks, where Andree again converted
the deciding goal, making IC the winners of
the plate. Thanks must go to all who played
and also to our very noisy supporters.
T E A M : Lois, Steph, Jane, Pam, Sara,
Andree, Mary (Capt), Rad, Sabs, Big Les,
Helen, Cathy, Jenny, Ruth.
Basketball
BASKETBALL practices will be held in the first
week of next term on Monday and Thursday.
Make sure you're there; competition in second
week.
Cricket
THE Cricket Club trials will be held on
Wednesday, April 29 at Harlington. Those
wishing to attend should sign the notice
outside of the Union Bar.
We will, during the whole of next term, be
running two Xls on a Wednesday and
Saturday with a possible third XI if demand is
sufficient. A Sunday XI will play during the
whole of the summer, and although this is
intended mainly for PGs is open to all club
members. A n y o n e wishing to play on
Sundays should contact Dr Dave Chadwick
of Chemical Engineering.
Will anyone wishing to play at all next term,
however infrequently, please fill in the
availabilities chart on the noticeboard outside
the Union Bar. This will make our team
selections (Monday and Thursday lunch-
times) much easier at a time when many
people are not in College all of the time.
I hope that as many people as are able will
find time to turn out and enable us to fulfil all
of our fixtures during the busy exam season.
Experience has shown that an afternoon
playing cricket is an ideal way of keeping
yourself from becoming totally bogged down
by revision, etc.
So dig out your whites and bring them to
College. Even if you only intend playing a
couple of games, we will be glad to see you as
the more people playing for the club the
easier it is to fulfil our fixtures and
keep the club going.
Martin Ellacott
Football Sixths
IC sixths team in only their second season of
League football have won the 5R lower
reserves league having only dropped three
points and scored thirty-five goals.
Top of the goalscorers was Roche with a
remarkable twenty goals including three
hatricks. The Sixths were fortunate that
Chamberlain's fiancee allowed him to play
because he scored twelve goals. Although
they only scored two goals each, Davis and
Coussens created many chances with their
runs down the right wing.
The Sixths had a settled midfield all season;
Milner scored three goals, Gartside's fierce
tackling and consistent effort earned him a
regular place and Tinkler kept getting picked
for no apparent reason but did manage to
score two goals.
The defence were rarely troubled by the
opposition. Higham dominated the right side
of defence, Nagle's composure steadied the
defence until his unfortunate leg injury,
Maynard added his experience and tackling
ability. Haberlin defended well and managed
to score twice, Davies even played when it
was cold. The goalkeeper Hampton managed
to shrug off his Scottish connections and
produced some extremely vital saves.
Many thanks to the other players who
played for the Sixths: Audin, Clegg, Martin,
Caseau, Flynn and Hall.
Sailing
THE Sailing Club has enjoyed an active
season, participating in the South East
Universities League and a number of other
events.
Unfortunately, it has not been possible to
complete the League programme due to lack
of time and our final position is likely to be
affected. The team this year has consisted
almost entirely of first years, and often losing
nearly all the matches in the first term, our
results this term have been much better.
In June, an IC team took part in the
Colraine 24-hour race, finishing third overall.
At the Firefly National Championships in
September, three IC boats participated. Dave
Derby finished first, Chris Lewis ninth, and
James Baxter eighteenth in a fleet of 100.
In October the Firefly Inland Champion-
ships were held at the Welsh Harp, and four
IC boats entered, with James Baxter gaining
the highest position, fourth overall.
Our first team event was the Foot Trophy,
also in October. The team did not fair
particularly well, but gained much experience
against strong opposition.
Perhaps the most important event this year
has been the Castaways Cup, in which all the
London colleges participate. Two IC teams
entered, the first team winning the event, and
the second team finishing fifth.
Sports Editor
IT IS normally the role of Vice-Chairman of
A C C to act as Sports Editor. If there is
anybody sufficiently interested in sport at IC
rather than the organisation of ACC then next
year's FELIX Editor, Mark Smith is more than
keen for them to do the job.
I suspect that Mark's attitude will be the
same as Steve Marshall's this year; that is, he
is VERY keen for a sports section but not
oeing interested in sport himself requires
lelp.
If you are interested, drop into the FELIX
Office and see me sometime or better still,
come along to Falmouth 132 for a cup of
coffee and I'll tell you what you're letting
yourself in for.
Phil
FELIX, March 20,1981 Page 7

