18 felix Friday 17 October 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 17 October 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Culture Crawl
Historic Pubs
Cittie of Yorke
22 High Holborn, Holborn, London, WC1V 6BN
Tube: Chancery Lane
The site of a pub since the 15th century, the Gray’s Inn Coffee Shop was built here in 1695. Coffee was in-
troduced to Britain in the mid 17th century and became the fashionable drink. Many coffee shops were the
offshoots of taverns (sound familiar?). They sprang up all over London and sold beer and wine too.
The Coffee Shop was set back from the road, with a garden at the front. This was built upon and after vari-
ous incarnations and expansions the whole site was redeveloped in the 1920’s. What we have today is three
distinct bar areas behind a ‘Tudor’ façade.
The front bar is panelled, dark and comfortable. The cellar bar forms the brick foundations of a much
older building. The bar to the rear is both fascinating and unique. In a great church-like hall, under a high
pitched roof, a long bar counter sits below large oak vats. These are dwarfed by massive wine vats near the
entrance, said to hold 1000 gallons each.
On the opposite wall is a series of small cubicles, like confessionals, where it’s easy to imagine lawyers in
confidential conversation with their clients. Another unique feature is an ingenious triangular stove (c.1815)
which stands in the centre of the bar. It has no visible chimney, the smoke is ducted away below the floor.
Some of the fabric of the pub is older than its rebuild date and it’s thought that much of it was recycled
from its predecessor. It is certainly one of London’s most extraordinary and unique pubs.
Coal Hole
91 Strand, London, WC2R 0DW
Tube: Charing Cross
The Coal Hole occupies a corner of the Savoy Building, designed by Thomas Collcutt. The theme of stone,
dark wood and leaded light windows, carries on into the street level bar. The ceiling is very high with heavy
black beams. Hanging banners suggest something medieval, but no, it was decorated in 1904. Under the mock
beams is a beautiful marble frieze of wistful maidens picking vines.
Beside the bar, in a corner, is a magnificent fireplace, heavily decorated with reliefs of vines. New lighting
has brought to life the pubs wonderful features. The gallery, converted from an office, is a good vantage point
from which to view the friezes. The rare art nouveau décor was a brief interlude between the brashness of the
late Victorian gin palaces and mega-pubs, and a new sentimental movement which was to favour the fake “ye
olde inn”, harking back to more wholesome times.
The cellar bar is open in the evenings and has its own entrance in the Strand. It was in the basement of the
pub’s former incarnation that the Wolf Club was founded, by actor and lush Edmund Kean. Supposedly a
place where hen-pecked husbands could enjoy a sing-song, its real role was less innocent, and involved heavy
drinking and loose women.
Ye Olde Cheshire Cheese
145 Fleet St., City of London, EC4A 2BU
Tube: Blackfriars
This is one of the few pubs in London that can justify the ‘Ye Olde’ in its name, well known in the 17th century and rebuilt after the
Great Fire of 1666. Its earliest incarnations hark back to a 13th century Carmelite Monastery – the pub’s cellars are thought to belong
to that same building.
The experience begins before you even get to the pub, as you approach through a narrow alleyway. By the entrance, a board lists
the reigns of the 15 monarchs through which this grand old pub has survived. The dark wooden interior is an enchanting warren of
narrow corridors and staircases, leading to numerous bars and dining rooms, so many that even regulars get confused.
A portrait of one of the Cheese’s most famous patrons, Dr. Samuel Johnson (who wrote the first dictionary) hangs on a far wall, and
his chair set upon a shelf. A copy of Johnson’s dictionary should be nearby, and his house is just around the corner.
In the main stairwell, increasingly narrow steps lead up to a couple of atmospheric dining rooms and private quarters. Unfortunately
these rooms are often closed, a shame as augment the eccentric and rambling nature of this grand old building.
Negotiating the narrow and awkward steps down to the cellar bars is rewarded with the discovery of the vaults, a fascinating series of
tiny, honey coloured stone rooms. These vaults were part of the original guesthouse’s chapel. The steps continue into the cellar proper,
where a further bar and dining area can be found.
Volumes of visitors’ books were kept and signatories include ambassadors, Prime Ministers and royalty. Unfortunately these records
began after the likes of Dr. Johnson, James Boswell, Voltaire, Thackeray and of course Charles Dickens (originally a Fleet St. journalist)
drank here. One famous resident was a parrot whose mimicry entertained customers for 40 years; its death was announced on the
BBC and obituaries appeared in newspapers all over the world.
Each generation that passes through the Cheese adds to its rich history.
Old Bank of England
194 Fleet Street, Holborn, London, EC4A 2LT
Tube: Chancery Lane
It may be a bit of a cheek to include this as a traditional pub, because it has only
been one since 1995. This impressive Grade I listed building was erected in 1888 as
the Law Courts Branch of the Bank of England and designed in the Italianate style,
which was popular at the time. Ironically, an historic pub, the Cock, was moved
across Fleet Street to make way for the new bank.
The interior is solid and sturdy, just what you’d expect of a bank. Fuller’s Brew-
ery has spent a small fortune restoring and decorating this fine building, and has
commissioned new paintings and murals. Large columns rise up to the high ornate
plaster ceiling. From this hangs three very large brass chandeliers.
The central bar structure almost reaches the ceiling and is so tall, a ladder has
been provided to reach the top shelf. Gold and black curtains frame the huge win-
dows and paint effect decorate the walls. The overall feel is rich and opulent. For a
good view there is a gallery with limited seating. This is a very popular pub and is
often packed at lunchtimes and early evenings.
Bar food is available and there is a restaurant through the door marked ‘Club
Room’.
The Dove
19 Upper Mall, Hammersmith, London, W6 9TA
Tube: Hammersmith
This pretty little 17th Century riverside pub has everything; unspoilt surroundings, good food and ex-
cellent beer, which must explain why it gets so busy. The Dove's popularity is nothing new. It boasts a
long list of celebrity customers including Graham Greene, Ernest Hemingway and A.P. Herbert, whose
novel The Water Gypsies features a pub called the 'Pigeon', nee the Dove.
William Morris lived next door. James Thomson, who wrote Rule Britannia, lodged and is said to
have died here. Less certain is the claim that Charles II and Nell Gwynne had secret rendezvous here.
Another claim to fame is in the Guinness Book Of Records for the smallest bar in Britain, a cosy 4 ft.
2ins by 7ft. 10ins.(1.27m x 2.39m).
The saloon bar has a low ceiling with dark oak beams and is simply furnished. An open fire takes off
the chill in winter. A small flight of steps leads to the dining area at the rear, which has ample seating.
Double doors lead out into a conservatory which houses an old vine. The riverside terrace beyond is a
favourite viewpoint for the University Boat race.
Information provided by:
www.pubs.com

