20 felix Friday 17 October 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 17 October 2008 felix
Arts
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
1
990 gave birth to a new breed
of Imperial fresher it seems.
My first foray to the union
this academic year 2008/9
and I am met by a not-al-
together-ugly group of freshly baked
students, dangerously close to look-
ing trendy and even sporting a few
items of noteworthy apparel. What has
wrought this shattering of the previ-
ous Imperial prototype of the socially
doomed geek? I have also witnessed a
surge in the number of people express-
ing a desire to review plays, inspect art
galleries and even try their hands at
some rhetoric. (Hitherto, all of them
female, come on lads!) Are we in the fe-
lix office close to no longer being able
to comfort ourselves with the fact that
we are the only interesting people at
Imperial?
Our inaugural arts section this
year started with a very effective and
thought provoking column by Emily
who asks us scientists to think about
who we are besides physicists, engi-
neers or biologists and what else de-
fines our personalities. Even if you
recoil at the prospect of undergoing a
cultural mission for the benefit of felix
Arts readers, it is worth pointing out
that art affects and reaches us all. In
many of the adverts that abound as a
result of free economy, on television,
on the radio in the form of music and I
am sure that all of us have seen a film at
least once in our lives. Therefore, if you
have already made up your mind never
to write syllable for this arts section,
you will be sure to find something of
interest to you here and possibly even
something which may inspire a new
passion in you.
For the remainder of this column I
considered elaborating on how this
trite financial situation is affecting
the art world: the artists and how we
the viewer consume this art. But that
would be conflicting with my hatred of
all the coverage this “crisis” is receiving
and the abundance with which it is spo-
ken about. Let us try and leave art as an
untainted haven as hard as that might
be considering how most things in this
world are kept on a ball and chain by
the economy. Turn over for Rosie Mil-
ton’s cheering account of how the art
world is triumphing despite the rise in
defeated bankers.
I also had the idea of expounding
the notion of how art and science are
not mutually exclusive as many have
come to believe. However, I think this
debate has been made redundant from
the frequency with which I have tried
to convince you that they are not and
by the fact that to anyone it should be
so obvious that the two can be so in-
herently linked. Art comes about from
science and technology and in turn, art
has been a medium through which sci-
ence can be explained and made more
attractive. Members of both “sides” can
learn valuable skills from dabbling in a
foreign subject.
T
he irony of staging Strind-
berg’s Creditors during the
current financial troubles
affecting the world will
surely enhance the image
of debt collectors hanging over you
while you sleep. This is certainly one of
the image Strindberg constructed for
an ex-husband overshadowing a mar-
riage. Strindberg does in fact go fur-
ther in the examination of marriages
in David Greig’s compact, cut down
version of Creditors. Anxiously await-
ing the return of his new wife, Adolph
draws comfort from the words of a
stranger. But this turns to destruction
as old wounds are opened, insecuri-
ties are laid bare and former debts are
settled. The play offers abundant in-
sights into relationships and marriage.
It deals with how opinions of couples
diverge or converge, implications for
future relationships after divorce and
insights which seem obvious, only be-
coming clear when spoken of.
The success of the production de-
pends on the portrayal of the manipu-
lation and threat by the ex-husband
Gustav as he comes back for revenge.
As a stranger, he sets about conversing
A different sort of Credit Crunch
Chris Hong finds irony and welcome relief in the Donmar Warehouse’s latest production of Creditors
with the husband, Adolf, who is suffer-
ing from a debilitating illness in a sea-
side resort hotel lounge. The director,
Alan Rickman, managed to sustain the
momentum of threat and anticipation
of menace. This compensated for the
drop in pace during some parts of the
play where the tension between the
characters slackened. Tom Burke as
Adolf was soulful in his confession of
love for his wife whilst being a man
tortured with physical disability. Anna
Chancellor’s Tekla was playful and se-
ductive and a great illustration as to
what brought on the insecurities about
men in her life. Owen Teale played the
ex-husband Gustav with subtle quiet-
ness which exploded gloriously into
terror for the couple. The beautiful
set of white wash walls and furniture
gave an air of deliberate cover up of the
past, adding to the cynicism and isola-
tion conveyed by the dripping sound of
water which surrounds the stage. This
beautifully lit production is not per-
fect, but during the persisting financial
uncertainty, to be reminded of a differ-
ent kind of creditors may be a welcome
distraction.Until 15 November
“Die, Bitch, die!” Tom Burke as Adolf and Anna Chancellor as his wife, Tekla
Anyone for
some Hedda?
Henrik Ibsen’s classic Hedda Gabler is
given an unsuccessful modern makeover.
Chris Hong tells all
T
here have been numerous
revivals of this Ibsen clas-
sic recently, and the last I
managed to catch was at
the Almeida with the fan-
tastic Eve Best who deservedly won her
share of awards and accolade. This new
updated version set in present day Not-
ting Hill will have a lot to live up to.
Modern day amendments include a 6
month trip to the Far East instead of a
train journey around Europe, and what
used to be a manuscript has now be-
come a USB Flash drive. However, an
attempt made for these to be blended
into the script stands out too much
as deliberate acts to modernise rather
than add anything to the dramatics.
Some updates work beautifully,
like the chic (albeit a little run-down)
apartment where the play is set, bring-
ing a real sense of living slightly be-
yond their means, and the clever scene
change with the boys out clubbing
enhances the image of Eli descending
into drugs and alcohol. The cast bring
Owen Beale as ex-husband, Gustav, in the Domar Warehouse’s production of Creditors
a real youthfulness to the play and the
writing and direction also succeeded
in that.
There was some very commendable
acting in Adrian Bower as the rough
and wild Eli and Alice Patten as the tim-
id and emotional Thea. Cara Horgan’s
spoilt, immature sixth former Hedda
contributes towards the understanding
of her manipulative behaviour. How-
ever, Toby, played by Christopher Obi,
lacks the menace in his threat to force
the conclusion of the play.
Overall, the modern update, set in
London in mid September, fails to con-
vey the failing of closeness and feeling
of being trapped felt by Hedda Gabler
in Norway’s mid-winter. Although
there are productions of Hedda Ga-
blers out there which will provide more
drama, this is a competent attempt to
bring something different to one of Ib-
sen’s great works.
21 August - 27 September 2008
Cate Blanchett as Hedda in a current New York production of Hedda
I first watched the film Event Horizon
when I was 12 years old, a watershed
age between an indiscriminate state of
terror when subjected to horror films
of dubious production value, and the
age where one learns about things like
animatronics and bad CGI. An age
in which one simply ought to know
better.
My elder brother and I would sit and
sit through hours of torrid crap on the
tube – enjoying most of it – and en-
gage with all manner of material on
Sky Movies. Jason Voorhees sequels,
B-movies, faux-indie Hollywood dross
– we watched it all. One night, taking
our places in front of the TV for what
had now become a ritual, we settled
down for our evening movie fix.
I have to admit, even as a preteen oik,
the prospect of a bunch of astronauts
stuck on a spaceship together for two
hours wasn’t the most enticing offer
the Gods that be (i.e. Rupert Murdoch)
had ever lavished upon me. But the
brightest little gems that dot the dia-
mond canopy of pop culture are not
always the most obvious ones. Hours
of intense character development
and human drama set in a 50’s prison
sounds about as enticing as dropping
the soap in Wormwood Scrubs, but
The Shawshank Redemption is cher-
ished by even the most obdurate of the
wilful ignorati.
Watching the crew of the ship disap-
pearing and being picked off one by
one in an increasingly macabre fashion
was engrossing in itself. But the op-
pressive air of foreboding and claustro-
phobia the film generated was intoxi-
cating, and as the crew traced their last
steps before being ‘offed’, you felt like
their living shadow. The way it pulled
you through a wormhole violently into
a landscape of pitiless terror without a
ripple was uncanny.
I felt the same violent pull when I
attended the opening of Tate Britain’s
Francis Bacon retrospective the other
day. The stillness of the gallery was a
body of water that belied a Godless
violence and brutality that was visible
to anyone who cared to slip beneath its
exterior. PRs clacked around in cum-
bersome heels and journalists pointed
and squinted. In another room, the ex-
hibition curator took questions loudly.
An usher yawned, glad for a change of
scenery, yet mindful that he would be
stuck in a room of hellish canvases for
the next few months. But even stuck
in the mundanity of the everyday, the
work still speaks for itself, and as with
the best of any art, succeeds in en-
grossing and provoking the viewer in
equal measure.
I know what you’re thinking. Francis
bloody Bacon. A key protagonist in the
Marmite minefield that is contempo-
rary art. You love him, or you despise
his work. Years later and a new genera-
tion of young artists do not appreciate
the fuss, and another generation of
secondary school art teachers lament
yet another screaming figure, face
distorted and/or agonised, that could
have been copied wholesale from the
artist’s oeuvre.
Bacon is one of a breed of contro-
versial artists that has dominated the
landscape of the art world for the past
century. This is because controversy
creates great PR buzz. And you can’t
sell anything without that. Variously
called indulgent, decadent, vulgar and
scornful, Bacon’s worldview was one of
the most interesting aspects of his life
and was one that added immensely to
an audience’s perception of his work.
An atheist who made the symbolism
of faith his own, Bacon looked at the
world with unflinching, unromanti-
cised eyes. Humanity was only one in
a menagerie of Godless creatures, ripe
to be locked up, scrutinised, experi-
mented upon and torn apart with an
unbiased hand equally versed in the
procedures of science and butchery.
The exhibition deftly takes advantage
of this, and the first few rooms depict-
ing snarling, contorted primates are
followed by Bacon’s screaming popes,
influenced by Velasquez’s Portrait of
Pope Innocent X.
If a pope isn’t spared from the uncar-
ing gaze of the artist, then it thus does
not come as a surprise that his depic-
tion of the crucifixion is especially
bloody. The event is treated brutally
and unsentimentally. Never the shrink-
ing violet, the artist boldly states that
Christ is little more than a bloodied
and imperfect pile of flesh.
Despite the exhibition’s abundance
and flair for the type of existentialist
rage that one typically identifies Ba-
con’s work with, unexpected treasure
arrives in the form of Bacon’s portraits
of his former lover, George Dyer, who
unceremoniously killed himself two
days before a pivotal gallery opening at
the Grand Palais in Paris in 1971. The
archive portraits of close friends and
lovers are also unexpectedly tender.
Importantly, we also learn that de-
spite Bacon’s devil-may-care attitude
to painting and his love of spontaneity,
his work actually benefited from pre-
paratory studies and drawings much
like any other traditional artist, loath
as he would have been to admit it.
The exhibition lacks in the years up
to Bacon’s breakthrough work in 1944,
but this is a minor quibble to what is
essentially a long-overdue tribute to
one of the nation’s greatest (the exhi-
bition travels to Madrid and the Met
next year), and for the modern art nay-
sayers, he worked until his last triptych
in 1991. The touch is deft, his under-
standing of colour dazzling and for all
his personal shortcomings, his passion
and focus consummate.
Atheism is so hot right now
David Paw thinks Francis Bacon would clean up at Sotheby’s. If he were still alive.
While Jimbob wrote his paper on the sex life of a golf ball, grandpappy relieved himself upstairs

