arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 17 October 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
22 Friday 17 October 2008
felix
Arts
Bisexuality at the British Museum
Rosie Grayburn discovers a lot more than cold marble and Roman sandals in the exhibition exploring the
innovative first Emperor of the civilisation which shaped life as we live it today
S
tanding in the Ancient Egypt
gallery in the British Muse-
um, I overheard a conversa-
tion between two of the chat-
tier mummies.
Nesperennub: Pssst.. Did you hear
about the new Roman Emperor who’s
moved in downstairs? Rich tosser. He’s
rented the Reading Room until the end
of October!
Hornakht: Yeah, goes by the name of
Publius Aelius Hadrianus. Who does
he think he is coming up here from
the 1st century AD and bringing all his
clobber with him?
Nes: (in lowered tones) I heard he
brought his wife AND his male lover
with him.
Horn: Well slap my thigh and call me
Osiris!
Nes: To be fair on the guy, at least all
his bits and pieces weren’t stolen by the
British in the 1800’s.
Horn: True. I was told he has a su-
perb collection of goodies from muse-
ums all over the continent. Maybe we
should give him a break, Nesperennub.
After all, he is sponsored by BP.
So, after much pestering of the boy-
friend to accompany me, I wangled a
ticket and set off to learn about this
Emperor Hadrian. Hadrian is one of
those Roman Emperors who you’ve
heard off but don’t know anything
about… except for that great big ‘eff
off’ wall in Scotland which he put his
name to. We are all familiar with that
weirdo Nero, the shanked Julius Caesar
and Marcus “that old guy off Gladia-
tor” Aurelius, but actually a lot of what
we know today as “Ancient Rome” was
formed by Hadrian. He was an incred-
ibly innovative guy! I mean, he was the
1st emperor with a beard and a pen-
chant for the Greeks – trendsetter!
I had not been to see the Terracotta
Warriors and had heard that the ex-
hibition space in the newly converted
Reading Room had been cramped
and frantic. I was pleasantly surprised
when we entered the exhibition to find
it open plan, airy and atmospheric,
with plenty of ventilation in the floor
for Marilyn Monroe moments. What
I wasn’t pleased with was the price of
the audio guides. I have an aversion
to audio guides at the best of times
but when they’re priced at £3.50 they
are most definitely surplus to require-
ments. Thankfully, there is definitely
enough written information to keep
you occupied and entertained al-
though you will possibly miss out on
a couple of anecdotes by skipping the
audio guide.
The exhibition starts with a huge
bust of Hadrian and his sandal-clad
foot. When a statue is this big, it rarely
survives this long intact due to the or-
Diamond studded skulls and ponies
While we suffer, the arts world invest their six figures in pickled sharks and ponies. Rosie Milton reports.
When I heard that Sotheby’s auction
house would be holding an exclusive
single artist sale – a move unprecedent-
ed for the salerooms, even since its es-
tablishment in 1744 – I was interested
to see which artist had boldly chosen
to sell his work through this house. To
discover that it was the controversial
Damien Hirst, I expected nothing less
from the sale than astronomical sums
spent and I revelled in the sale’s de-
lightfully ironic title – ‘Beautiful Inside
My Head Forever’.
Most recently Hirst has been in the
media glare and under incredulous
speculation from anyone interested
in art (or money) - prior to this sale of
course - when he sold his unforgetta-
ble piece, ‘For The Love Of God’ for a
cool £50 million to an unknown inves-
tor (rumoured to be George Michael,
for those of you interested in auction
room gossip). This human skull is en-
crusted with 8,601 diamonds and as
the press release for its ‘debut’ pointed
out, it was “the most expensive piece
of contemporary art ever created”.
Ground-breaking contemporary art or
elaborate disco ball? You decide.
This seems to be the norm with any
discussion regarding Hirst and his
maelstrom of conceptual art. The se-
cret to his success is one I will try and
decipher for you. If we look at his pro-
duction, he almost always takes an or-
dinary object (for example a few empty
cartons from a pharmacy counter, or
even a shark or two), puts it in a box
or sticks it on a canvas and then makes
millions from it. But although I have
broken the ‘technical’ process down
here, it still does not explain his suc-
cess. To understand that we must turn
to the hungry consumers of his art –
the wealthy ‘collectors’.
As long as there has been art, it has
had a purpose for display and collec-
tion. When the art auction became a
steadfast thing, it introduced the sport
of competition in collecting. Today
it is viable to say, especially in terms
of modern art, that this competition
far outweighs the desire for collect-
ing. The auction house has become a
showroom not only to view the art on
sale but also for those wealthy enough
to indulge in the sport of bidding to
display their millions in an almost gro-
tesque fashion.
However, sitting amongst the crowd
on the morning of the second part of
the sale of September this year, I no-
ticed that the majority of bids came
from the crowded bank of telephone
bidders along the side walls, or from
people dotted throughout the room
with their mobile phones constantly
stuck to their heads, vicariously gam-
bling away other people’s money on
the lots of the day. This apparent ab-
sence of actual buyers to a saleroom is
nowhere near a new phenomenon to
the modern auction house, but I think
that under the circumstances of such a
controversially exceptional sale such as
this, it is especially poignant.
One lot that I witnessed being sold
was ‘The Dream’, a grey foal in formal-
dehyde solution with a horn emerg-
ing from the centre of its forehead,
emulating the fantastical unicorn. This
sold for £2,050,000 (not including the
buyer’s premium of 15%). And where
was the buyer? Not in the saleroom, for
sure, but bidding through his (or her)
representative. This of course raises
the issue of discretion – if you had in-
vested a few million in any of Hirst’s
pieces I feel sure it would be a bold
move to let people publicly know it
had been you – his work is as we know,
controversial – but even more so is the
money people are willing to spend on
it. So who are the game players in the
auction world?
Russian oligarch Roman Abramovi-
ch is one (recognised in the UK as the
owner of Chelsea football club), but
in the art world he is known for being
flanked by his ‘fashionista’ girlfriend
Dasha Zhukova, who recently opened
the ‘Garage’ Centre for Contemporary
Culture in Moscow (with a little ‘help’
from her boyfriend of course).
Another post-sale rumour is that
Abramovich bought the key piece from
the first part of the sale - ‘The Golden
Calf’ for £10.3 million – another bes-
tial soup, but embellished with 18 carat
gold horns and hooves. Over the two-
day sale, Hirst achieved £111 million
and only five of 223 works did not sell.
During the week of the sale, else-
where in the money world the Lehman
Brothers collapsed and there was fur-
ther trouble on Wall Street. In the en-
suing weeks terms such as ‘Black Fri-
day’, disaster and crisis have not ceased
to cry out at us from the front pages of
the press. What a comparison then to
the gross frittering away of millions of
US dollars or pound sterling (or even
Russian rubles) at the Sotheby’s sale
of Damien Hirst’s work. I’m sure Karl
Marx is turning in his grave.
What of the future of the art world
then? Will the frequenters of the auc-
tion house salerooms always have mil-
lions to play with, or will they dimin-
ish and fade away in the coming years?
Will the exorbitant expenditure on art
change too, or will the stakes continue
to rise higher and higher? Perhaps we
may be witnessing the last runners in
the race to desperately spend ground-
breaking millions before they disap-
pear into the black hole of the global
financial crisis.
AtleastnowweknowthattheHadron
Collider really did achieve something,
even if only metaphorically. At the end
of the two-day sale, even if you couldn’t
afford a Hirst yourself, then at least you
could spend a hearty £50 on the set of
three catalogues which come complete
with stickers of butterflies, fake dia-
monds, pills, fags and a pickled calf so
supposedly you can have a go at mak-
ing your own art (I know of one for sale
if anyone’s interested).
Otherwise, who knows, you might
do a Hirst and make a few million out
of it (that is if there’s any millionaires
left that he hasn’t sucked dry yet). If
you do, let us know if its beautiful in-
side your head forever after.
ganic nature of the joints attaching the
gargantuan arm or 80cm foot to the
torso. Still, the sizes of the remaining
bits are impressive and the details are
still there. Hadrian’s sandal is the best
in Roman design – eat your heart out
Topman - and the curls of his barnet
are trimmed to perfection.
The line you take through the highly
disorientating space has been very
well thought out by the curators.
Every single campaign of Hadrian’s is
demonstrated with the best artefacts.
Every last coin is explained and adds
something to our knowledge of this
finest Roman emperor. To keep us in-
terested, there are more than enough
unusual relics in the exhibition so we
don’t get bored with the generic Ro-
man objects. I loved the double headed
cameo of Trajan and Plotina, which is
a thousand years old but looks like it’s
fresh out of Wedgewood.
Throughout the exhibition we also
get to know several of Hadrian’s peers
and contemporaries: the most of whom
was Antinous his Greek lover. In a time
where it was acceptable to take a male
lover as well as your wife, Hadrian wor-
shiped Antinous. The original script of
a Greek hunting poem really showed
Hadrian’s devotion to him. It was all
quite sweet.
I don’t think I have ever been so im-
pressed with an exhibition due to the
extent to which we really feel familiar
with Hadrian’s personality, as if we
were one of his citizens. I felt respect
and awe for this innovative emperor.
The presence of so many images of him
familiarises us with his hamster cheeks
and cherub hair which really helps us
to get to know “the man behind the
wall”. You do leave the exhibition feel-
ing very Roman: educated, superior
and a little bit gay.
Diamond encrusted skull rumoured to be owned by George Michael
Wannabe art conoisseur, Dasha Z
Stoppard-ed in my tracks byIvanov
An adaptation of Chekhov’s Ivanov by Tom Stoppard is deemed a trove of acting talent, claims Caz Knight
P
erhaps the Donmar West
End’s production of Anton
Chekhov’s Ivanov comes
to the stage at the correct
moment given the climate
of expanding Russian art gracing the
great auction houses of “Moscow-
on-Thames” (as London has become
known in Russia).
My previous experience of Chekhov
at the theatre was a brilliant version of
The Seagull, but ponderous and slight-
ly difficult to understand nonetheless.
Add this to the fact that Kenneth Bran-
agh was deemed to make his come-
back by storming the West End, after
a 19-year break from the stage, and I
had visions of an evening spent sitting
through one soliloquy after another as
Ivanov struggles to overcome his lassi-
tude and hollowness against the back-
drop of a grey and sparsely dress stage.
How very very wrong I was.
Ivanov was Chekhov’s first attempt at
writing a full-length play and it turned
out to be a labour of love, or will to es-
tablish himself as a serious dramatist.
He rewrote it tirelessly after a first edi-
tion in 1887 to better capture the spir-
itual sickness of his protagonist as he
suffers the bitter autumn of his life.
As a medic, Chekhov made a de-
tailed study of what he called the Rus-
sian Condition – a blend of conscience
and apathy that he weaves into the
play among many of the characters
but most markedly and importantly
in Ivanov. Chekhov draws on his own
personal experiences as Ivanov mar-
ries a Jewess at the prospect of a heft
dowry but eventually falls out of love
and into depression, driving her away
and into her deathbed. A brief engage-
ment to the young, girlish Sasha ends
with Ivanov’s suicide minutes before
the wedding.
The play starts and ends with a bang:
a loud, shock-inducing gun shot which
calls us to attention making us aware
that we are about to experience some-
thing fantastic. Tom Stoppard’s adap-
tation of Chekhov’s work is obvious in-
stantly with the modern turn of phrase
and jokes which pour forth from the
characters onto an appreciative audi-
ence - much to Ivanov’s annoyance
and distress. Stoppard has done an
astounding job at creating such a witty
(evident from the audience’s rambunc-
tious laughter) and well-oiled script
which is not only easy to, but a delight
to digest.
The essence of the Donmar is still
present with its modest and slightly
sombre stage setting which captures
the weary spirits of the characters of
pre-revolutionary, rural Russia. Indeed
a contrast to the gloriously plush Wyn-
dham’s theatre.
Far from being Branagh’s show,
the superb cast, directed by Michael
Grandage, comes together to ensure
the seamless flow of humour (even a
few phallic jokes) which is juxtaposed
with their own supposed weariness
and debt and with that of Ivanov’s more
pronounced and obvious misery. Bran-
agh is surprisingly underwhelming in
his performance which only conveys
his characters feelings of emptiness.
The result is outstanding and his sheer
talent obvious from his near perfect
ability to transition between frustra-
tion, anger, despair, cynicism, flippan-
cy, indifference and sadness. He leaves
us wanting to do nothing but give him
a huge cuddle as he huddles shaking,
red-eyed, lip a-trembling under the ta-
ble – “What’s wrong with me?” Quite
different to his role of self-assured Pro-
fessor Lockhart in Harry Potter and
the Chamber of Secrets!
Two young and beautiful troves of
acting talent sure to suceed are Tom
Hiddleston and Andrea Riseborough,
both RADA graduates like Branagh.
Hiddleston and his lion-like good
looks are quite a contrast to his previ-
ous role as the virile Cassio in Othello,
as he takes on the role of Anna Petro-
vna’s Doctor who is too honest for his
own good, despised by all in the village.
His anger and indignation at Ivanov’s
treatment of his wife are carried off
with skill as are his audience-addressed
musings. Riseborough astounded with
her bold and energetic portrayal of the
impetuous Sasha, oddly reminiscent
of Ellen Page’s Juno McGuff, with her
frank and dry humour.
I left in amazement and confidant
that the next year at the Wyndham’s is
going to be one of 24 carat caliber with
Twelfth Night, Madame de Sade and
Hamlet (to be directed by Branagh)
featuring some phenomenal actors.
Perhaps the critics are right and we
are definitely entering a new, golden
age for theatre. Ivanov would certainly
suggest so.
Kenneth Branagh is Ivanov, the middle-aged rural Russian, plagued with lassitude and a dying wife. I’m not quite sure what is going on in this picture...

