Email Hannah on dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Email Nigel on advice@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 17 October 2008
Welfare
Welfare Editor – Hannah Theodorou
Many of you reading this will have
arrived at College this term. Some of
you will be in your intermediate years
here, while others will be in your final
year, preparing to leave College. What-
ever point you’re at in your university
career, the experience of transition is
likely to affect you in some way.
If you’re in your first term of under-
graduate study, this might be the first
time you’ve been away from home for a
long period, the first time you’ve been
away from your family and friends for
an extended period. You’re likely to feel
a little homesick. This is natural, a sign
that you’re human and have attach-
ments to people.
Perhaps you have arrived at College
from another country; you might be
unfamiliar with Britain and British cul-
tures. English might not be your first
language. And although you can keep
contact with your loved ones by phone
or email, it’s not the same as face-to-
face contact.
You might have arrived in the centre
ofLondonfromamuchsmallertownor
village setting, in which case you could
feel somewhat overwhelmed by living
in the city. And on top of all that, this
might be the first time you have to do
your own washing, or to shop for your
own food. Moreover, for some people,
meeting new friends and socialising
can evoke considerable anxiety. All of
this is in addition to the demanding
courses studied at Imperial!
Of course, all of these transitions are
likely to be exciting as well as challeng-
ing and offer opportunities for you to
experience new situations and cultures.
Yet, at the same time, new situations
often feel daunting as well as exciting.
They are likely to highlight the areas in
which we feel unsure about ourselves.
Everyone might feel uncomfortable in
a new situation, as well as excited.
Perhaps you’re in the final year of
your undergraduate career, and con-
sidering job applications as well as
finals. Next summer you’ll be leaving
College and beginning the next phase
of your life, with different challenges
and opportunities. Are you achieving
what you wanted to achieve at Col-
lege? Everyone has regrets, but is there
anything in particular that you’d like to
achieve before you leave?
Perhaps you’ve recently begun an
MSc, or a PhD. The volume of work
involved in an MSc at Imperial is large,
perhaps considerably more than was
involved in your undergraduate degree.
And if you’re beginning a PhD you will
be faced with the task of organising
your unstructured time in a way that
was not required for an undergraduate
degree. Hence the transition to post-
graduate study has its own particular
challenges.
You might be returning to academic
study after a period of working: that
could be a shock to the system in itself.
You might also have commitments you
didn’t have as an undergraduate – a
partner, children, a mortgage – differ-
ent challenges involved in a different
life-stage.
In short, no matter what stage you’re
at in your time at College, there are
challenges and opportunities which
are concerned with transition and
change. If you’re struggling with these,
it might be helpful to talk about them,
in order to clarify and understand your
experience. Sometimes it’s helpful to
talk with someone completely outside
your circle of friends and family.
You could talk with your personal tu-
tor or member of your hall wardening
team, in the first instance. In addition,
the Student Counselling Service is
available to any registered student
who would like to talk about any of
these challenges. Information about
the service is at www.imperial.ac.uk/
counselling. To arrange an initial ap-
pointment, contact reception at coun-
selling@imperial.ac.uk or on 020
7594 9637.
The doctors at Imperial College
Health Centre have a great deal of ex-
perience and knowledge of students’
psychological health. They are avail-
able for you to arrange an appointment
to talk with them. There are also coun-
sellors and psychotherapists in the
Health Centre who can be consulted
after referral via a doctor or practice
nurse.
Times of transition and change may
present us with new experiences that
challenge or clash with aspects of our
deeply held ideas or beliefs: In this
international community we are pre-
sented with a wide range of faiths, be-
liefs and intellectual traditions. This
can be both exciting and bewildering.
The Chaplaincy is available to anyone
– from any faith or world view – who
wants to reflect on these kind of ques-
tions. Chaplains can also suggest other
places to help you explore your ideas
further or to enter into dialogue with
different view points. Further informa-
tion about the Chaplaincy Centre is at
www.imperial.ac.uk/chaplaincy
If you identify strongly with any of
the areas described here, don’t wait
until your unhappiness grows and gets
in the way of you enjoying life here at
College; talk with someone soon so
problems can be explored before they
become a major issue.
The International Office is running
a series of orientation workshops for
international students. One of these
is ‘Adjusting To Student Life in Lon-
don’ which will be run in collaboration
with the Student Counselling Service.
This will take place on Monday 20th
October, 13:00 – 14:00. For further
information visit www.imperial.
ac.uk/international or contact Im-
perial College International Office at
international@imperial.ac.uk or tel-
ephone 0207 594 8040.
A guide to surviving your first term
The beginning of term can be an anxious and confusing time for many students. Fear not, help is at hand:
Uganda has been one of the biggest success stories in Africa's fight against
HIV and AIDS. At its peak, it was estimated that 15% of the population was
living with HIV or AIDS, a percentage which has fallen dramatically to about
5% today. People tend to disagree on the reasons for their success but con-
troversially, part of the success seems to lie with the government's ABC cam-
paign, which focuses primarily on the message of abstinence.
Martin Ssempa, a pastor in Uganda, is coming to Imperial to argue why
he believes abstinence could be the key to success in the fight against the
disease which affects 33 million people worldwide. Whether you agree or
strongly disagree come along to hear his views, air yours and get involved in
the debate!
This event has been organised as a S.H.A.G. Taster event, the Union's
campaign to promote sexual health awareness. S.H.A.G. Week will be taking
place in from the 24th to 28th of November right across campus and we are
actively recruiting S.H.A.G. Ambassadors now to help spread the message
about sexual health and distribute their weight in condoms! If you’re inter-
ested email dpew@imperial.ac.uk saying you’d like to get involved.
David Allmann
Student Counsellor
Some students feel a little lost when they first come to university
Uganda: The HIV Success story?
Uganda: The HIV success story? Monday 20th October 6pm,
Royal School of Mines lecture theatre 1.47
Applications are invited for the position of subwarden
at Falmouth & Keough Halls in the new Southside
building. The position is open to all full-time members
of Imerial College including postgraduate students.
Further information or an application form can be obtained
by emailing warden@falmouthkeogh.co.uk
Deadline for applications: 5pm Monday 27th October 2008
Subwarden Vacancy

