film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 17 October 2008 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Zuzanna Blaszczak
The Film Cynic Clinic
Liam Neeson shows class
Oh dear, here we go again, another
American kidnapping film. Haven’t we
seen enough of them? Well actually,
no, as Taken is a surprisingly different
take on a worn-out formula.
Bryan,aCIAbodyguard(Neeson),has
decided that the only thing worthwhile
in his life is his daughter Kim (Grace),
so he stops working for the American
government in order to make up for the
time he has lost with her. Determined to
see Kim as much as he can, Bryan visits
Kim on her 17th birthday to try and re-
build their tattered relationship. Soon
after the lavish party that her mother
(Janssen) and stepfather have thrown
for her, Bryan discovers that Kim has
only one birthday wish: to go to Paris
with her friend so that she can explore
Europe. At first Bryan is adamant; he
knows the dangers of the outside world
and refuses to give her permission to
go. But after he realises that this is what
she really wants, he gives in and allows
her to leave. But as soon as Kim arrives
in Paris, she meets a charming stranger
and is then kidnapped, an event that
Bryan hears happening via her mobile
phone. Bryan must now race against
time and use all of his CIA knowledge
to track down the people responsible
In Taken, see for yourself that formulaic doesn’t have to mean boring and unoriginal.
and find his beloved daughter before
she disappears for good. Can he find
her? And if he does, will she be alive?
Taken utilises a conventional plot but
cleverly makes it unconventional by
changing the way that the protagonist
goes about finding his daughter. As we
already know that he is ex-CIA, we
can accept that what he is doing is re-
alistic and because he attempts to find
his daughter in a very methodical and
logical way, the film is much more be-
lievable then the standard Hollywood
action movie. The script and camera
work are very good, and the violence
and action sequences are original and
exciting. As usual, the star of the show
Neeson gives a commanding and like-
able performance, dominating the film
by humanizing it and making us care
about him. Although some of the fight-
ing scenes are fairly grisly, and the plot
has elements some people may find un-
comfortable (sex slavery), the film fits
together well and keeps the pace and
excitement lasting for the entire time.
Considering that the tension is quickly
built up from the opening credits, my
main criticism would be the ending.
However as most audience members
would be familiar with formulaic plot
styles, they would probably enjoy the
rewarding conclusion considering all
of the terror that goes before it.
Taken is a better-than-average, en-
grossing and intelligent, action-packed
thriller that is enjoyable to watch. Al-
though it is not ground-breaking or
entirely unique, it passes the time ef-
ficiently. So if you find yourself stuck in
a cinema, struggling to decide what to
watch, then give Taken a chance, and
you will probably enjoy it.
I
have to confess I like autumn.
Not only when the weather is
nicer than during summer like
it has been in this past week or
so, but also when the leaves are
turning yellow and all that lights them
up are cars passing by with headlights
turned on to dispel the rain and fog.
Because let’s face it, what can be more
pleasant than sitting in a cinema chair
with the seemingly obligatory bucket
of popcorn and a barrel of Coke wait-
ing for a movie to start, knowing that
outside there is a loud, grey, wet world
that always turns out to be more bor-
ing than the film you are about to ex-
perience with Digital Dolby Surround,
HD and a screen the size of a double-
decker bus. And… autumn is when the
BFI London Film Festival takes place.
This year it starts on the 15th of Octo-
ber and for fifteen days Londoners get
a chance to exercise their skills of film
criticism on hundreds of movies from
around the globe. Of course that is the
theory; the reality is a bit less glamor-
ous. How do you get 12 million people
into a screening room that seats 200?
Why are a quarter of the movies shown
produced in Hollywood? But most im-
portantly, how do you choose which
films to see?
Theoretically you could see all of
them. If you had a few thousand quid
to spare and possessed the very com-
mon ability to be in multiple places at
the same time or to travel across Lon-
don in under twenty minutes, that is.
You probably won’t be able to get even
a single ticket now (I should know, I
checked and got sorely disappointed),
but I think it’s worth pointing out some
movies anyway. And I won’t mention
the ‘big’ names of the Opening Gala
like Frost/Nixon, Slumdog Million-
aire or Quantum of Solace, they will
get their share of publicity and hype
without me having to point them out
to you.
Based on my extremely subjective
judgement of film synopses provided
by the British Film Institute in a mon-
ster of a booklet the size and length of
a good magazine, I would recommend
the following; Indonesian Film Noir
The Secret (Kala) in which a gay cop and
narcoleptic journalist chase a phantom
killer through Suharto’s Jakarta. An Ira-
nian road movie, Loose Rope (Rismane
Baz), that ignores politics in order to
show the difference between rural and
urban with plenty of good humour and
a bit of sting to remind us that not all is
well with the world. A Japanese tragi-
comedy, Routine Holiday (Huangjin
Zhou), in which poet Li Hongqi ex-
amines the idea of wasting time doing
nothing in particular (I don’t know why
the protagonists aren’t students) in an
understated-albeit-dreamy way. Also
the Polish Tricks (Sztuczki), a great
success in its homeland, looks like it
could conquer the West as well with
a nostalgic, witty and optimistic story
about a young boy raised by his sister.
And for those who like their movies to
break the classic Hollywood narrative,
A Lake (Un Lac) by Philippe Gran-
drieux promises to do just that. Who
knows, maybe some will eventually get
the wide release they deserve.
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
Taken HHHKK
Director: Pierre Morel
Writer: Luc Besson
Robert Mark Kamen
Cast: Liam Neeson,
Maggie Grace,
Famke Janssen
Jonathan Dakin
Cinematography? Pah, it’s all in the
soundtrack.
It’s there in the water. Derr derr. It’s
going to eat those innocent bathers.
Derr derr. Its shark fin glistens in the
sunlight, as Dave the ‘special effects
bloke’ pants away, trying to pull a fibre-
glass triangle across a swimming pool.
Jaws, what a masterpiece. You have
to have respect for the way in which
a film like Jaws is able to elicit such
powerful emotions from its audience,
using only the limited resources of the
1970s. I was well and truly hidden be-
hind my big fluffy Powerpuff-Girls pil-
low whilst watching that famous scene.
Truly shocking. How on earth did they
get people to buy it? It’s simple, derr
derr*.
Try watching the same scene whilst
muted, and suddenly all tension is lost.
It’s as though someone has added the
subtitle “It’s just a film, you’re only in
a cinema, stop eating your neighbour’s
popcorn”. You’re brought smashing
back down to earth, the illusion shat-
tered, with the sudden realisation that
you’ve got a numb arse. It demonstrates
the importance of a great soundtrack:
the haunting string section, set over
thunderous brass, with Dave tinkling
the triangle occasionally. It’s the spine-
tingling, buttock-clenching fuel that
drives the movie head on into the wall
of emotion (and if that isn’t a contrived
metaphor, I don’t know what is). With-
out its triumphant, jubilant score, Indi-
ana Jones would be transformed from
a whip-lashing, über-exploring hero
into: Mr Jones & Son, Antiquarians
and Odd Jobs. Jurassic Park would be
little more than a documentary of Lon-
don Zoo on a Tuesday.
Of course there are those films which
by their very definition require no
sound at all. They are, of course, Silent
Films. However all those people are
now dead, so we don’t need to worry
about that genre any more. Other films
that require no sound include any
of the Harry Potter series. Strangely
enough those are also films that re-
quire no visuals either, and in fact,
should never have been made. Now if
there are any HP Movie fans out there
who found that comment a little harsh,
I would recommend learning to read
instead.
Of course if you’re feeling a little
more adventurous you could always
try switching soundtracks. I liked
The Shining, but felt that it lacked the
true swing and flair of the Sixties. So
by swapping the original desolate and
chilling score with that from Austin
Powers, the Spy who Shagged Me, there
is instantly more joie de vivre, or as I
prefer to say, va va voom.
Perhaps ‘Eye of the Tiger’ was wasted
on Rocky III. Imagine how much bet-
ter the Sound of the Music would have
been, if they’d been singing along to
“the thrill of the fight” instead? Or how
about cheering up the more depress-
ing bits of Braveheart with the Ghost-
busters theme? Yes, purists might argue
that this would slightly alter the subtle
dynamic of these award-winning mo-
26 felix Friday 17 October 2008
Surprising, surreal & funny
ments of cinema, but you can’t help
but wonder.
Comments? Please respond to:
not_gavin@hotmail.com.
Wanted: Actor or actress to play Bank
Chief in new financial drama. No previ-
ous experience necessary, excellent pay
regardless of outcome, although poor
results may cripple world economy.
For Sale: Medium Size Investment
Bank. One previous, not particularly
careful owner. Some minor scrapes
and damage, although all repairs will
be covered by the Taxpayer Insurance
Company.
“If something goes to the trouble of
happening, then it’s inevitable” is the
frequently repeated motto of Horatio
Fisk, the character that steals the spot-
light in this New Zealand production
based on a novella by Lord Dunsay. In
Dean Spanley the ‘inevitable’ is more
often than not referred to a most dis-
piriting event such as a death of a son,
demise of a wife etc., but the inevitabil-
ity of this movie reaching the screens
in December is without a doubt a won-
derful thing.
Set in England in the year 1904, the
film narrates a story (through the voice
of Jeremy Northam) of a chance en-
counter leading to a series of dinner
interviews which change the lives of an
estranged father and son. The father
is Horatio Fisk, played by eight-time
Award nominee Peter O’Toole who
does a remarkable job with his por-
trayal of an old jaded Englishman with
an exemplary stiff upper lip.
The son is Hounslow Fisk (Jeremy
Northam) – alone, middle-aged and
tired of his father’s wisdoms. Theirs
is a typical relationship based on ob-
ligation and badly feigned affection,
but one that we see transformed on-
screen by the most unusual of events.
At a lecture on the transmigration
of the soul, which the Fisks attend to
fight the boredom of the routine they
find themselves in, Horatio becomes
intrigued by a certain dean, Spanley
(Sam Neill). Subsequent incidental
run-ins will lead the younger Fisk to
invite Spanley to dinner, assuring his
presence by promising a bottle of Im-
perial Tokay to accompany the food.
One dinner turns to several when the
Stuart Higgins
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
dean’s weakness for Tokay results in
astonishing stories about his past.
The movie is described as an eccentric
comedy-drama. Well, it’s more than
eccentric, this dialogue-driven film is
preposterous, bordering on the absurd.
Watching the dinner scenes one can’t
stop asking with wide-eyed surprise
‘Are they [producers, actors, writers]
for real?’ and despite that, the laughter
comes tumbling uncontrollably from
one’s throat; laughing as much at the
dialogues and the story on screen as
at oneself for falling for it. And some-
where between the laughter you’ll wit-
ness a touching story of one man’s re-
discovery of humanity and his surprise
at seeing that he still has a heart.
His name is Bond, James Bond, and
although you have seen him return
twenty times before, this time he is
returning with only one thing on his
mind: vengeance.
After the explosive finale to Casino
Royale, Bond is on the warpath to
track down those responsible for the
death of the woman who almost stole
his heart. But along the way, what will
he discover? Who really was behind
the events that unfolded in the previ-
ous film? What other shocking secrets
will be discovered along the way? And
most importantly: can revenge be his?
Jonathan Dakin Daniel Craig, in his second outing as
Bond, will be surrounded by gorgeous
girls in the form of Ukrainian beauty
Olga Kurylenko and English sexpot
Gemma Arterton, old favourites in-
cluding M (Judi Dench) and Felix Leit-
er (Jeffrey Wright), and a brand new
villain called Dominic Greene, played
by French actor Mathieu Amalric.
Can the new Bond film really live
up to the hype? This reporter says yes,
and promises to be the first in line at
the nearest cinema, dressed in a tux
just like his hero, as soon as the film
is released.
Quantum of Solace will be released
nationwide on October 31st.
Comingsoon
Must-see films set to arrive in
a cinema near you!
Bryan Brown advertising his latest film
Liam Neeson, slightly older James Bond maybe?
The actual James Bond with a very angry looking lady! Take a wild guess

