felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Jack Cornish &
Mustapher Botchway
Sports Editors
The season has finally started for with
most teams in action. This week there
are match reports from a whole host of
clubs. There is news of a charity bad-
minton tournament later this month as
well as a brief overview of the Baseball
world series.
If your club has any match, tour or
event reports, make sure you email
them to sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk to
stand the chance of it being printed
in future issues. Good luck in your
matches and until next week...
Ps. The sports league table is almost
upon us!
ICBC succeed on home water
Three was most definitely the crowd
last weekend for the 2008 Pair’s Head
of the River Race. Putney embank-
ment was a flurry of activity as crews
boated in glorious sunshine and sup-
porters positioned themselves along
the course. The 4km processional head
race took place from Chiswick Bridge
to Hammersmith Bridge and attracted
over 380 boats. The quality of ICBC’s
pre-season training was evident with
Imperial winning three categories and
clocking the fastest time overall.
Pair’s Head is one of the few head
races where coxes are unscrewed from
the boat and let out for a few hours.
The lack of calls for technique in the
boat allows the guns to be taken out of
retirement, and for as much banging
up and down the slide as required in
order to butch past other crews. It may
not be pretty, but it’s fun.
Just about recovered from the cel-
ebrations of winning at Henley, Simon
Hislop teamed up with ICBC’s GB
representative Adam Freeman-Pask
in the senior 1 (S1.2x) cateogory. Not
only did they win their category but
the double was the outright winner of
the entire head race coming home in
11:44.0, solidifying Imperial’s domina-
tion of tideway races. This is 14 sec-
onds faster than the heavily publicised
doubles entry of Olympic kayaking
champion Tim Brabants and Olympic
sculler Alan Campbell, who only man-
ged sixth place on the day. It is highly
recommended that the Olympic duo
see Steve Trapmore at ICBC if they
wish to improve this result. The IC pair
are available for a photographic shoot
and/or an interview and will be sign-
ing autographs at the Toga Party this
Saturday in the boathouse. Tickets still
available!
Meanwhile the coxes were seeking
solace in each other and huddling on
the bank, whispering and tutting at
the navigational errors unfolding while
slowly coming to the horrific realista-
tion that crews can actually steer and
cox themselves.
In the Elite pairs category (E.2-),
Will Todd and Ole Tietz were inspired
by Pasklop and replicated victory in a
time of 12:27.4. Unassuming and un-
pretentious, Will is reluctant to men-
tion his former glory at Henley. This
may shock some of you, but he won
the Britannia Challenge Cup in 2007.
True story.
It was Erica Thompson and Ed-
mund Bradbury who secured the hat
trick for ICBC, winning the senior 3
mixed doubles (Mx.S3.2x) category in
12:59.9, faster than many of the men’s
crews on the day. This is another win
for Thompson who has been dominat-
ing all summer collecting medals and
pots at every race. She was particularly
excited at the prospect of the lidded
pot prize in this event. There is no mo-
tivation stronger than the thought of a
lid and the prospect of the myriad of
uses for such a device.
ICBC had several entries, all giving
gutsy performances. Congratulations
to all participants and to Adam Seward
who is the unchallenged long-distance-
IC-screaming champion.
With coxes rounded up and rein-
stalled into the boats it was pub time
and ICBC made their presence felt
along the embankment. ICBC always
welcomes new members and there are
Fresher’s sessions every Wednesday
afternoons at 14:00 and Sunday morn-
ings at 11:00 at the boathouse. See you
there!
Christina Duffy
Imperial College Boat Club
Boat Club dominate

