4 felix Friday 17 October 2008
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
Surgeon takes out wrong organ at St. Mary’s
An investigation is taking place at St
Mary’s Hospital in Paddington after a
patient was given the wrong operation.
A woman was admitted for a gynaeco-
logical procedure and ended up being
taken to an operating theatre to have
her gall bladder removed.
Imperial College Healthcare NHS
Trust, of which St Mary’s is one of the
hospitals, has claimed that the opera-
tion was actually fortuitous. Once the
gall bladder was examined, it was re-
alised that it needed to be removed
anyway. A spokeswoman told the Tel-
egraph that: “During the operation, the
patient was found to need this treat-
ment which was successfully carried
out.”
“The patient made a good recovery
and her original problem was resolved.
The trust has apologised to both the
patient and their family who have now
returned home.”
The main concern raised here is
that there could have been such a
mistake. With each patient, there are
several checks that are made to ensure
that such a mistake is not made. Such
measures include giving each patient a
wrist-band which has their name and a
unique number that links them to the
particular treatment they may require.
As well as all these measures, the pa-
tient is made to sign a consent form for
Jovan Nedić
Editor in chief
This hospital belongs to Mary., I want a hospital all of my own too
Main Dinning Hall serving
Oriental buffet, for now
Alice Rowlands
News Correspondent
Imperial fall to 6th,
UCL climb to 7th
Daniel Wan
News Correspondent
An updated Times Higher Education
(THE) World University rankings for
2008 were announced this week, which
saw Imperial drop one from last year’s
5th place. Imperial are only bettered by
Harvard, Yale, Cambridge, Oxford and
now California Institute of Technol-
ogy, who leapfrogged Imperial, moving
up 3 places from 7th to this year’s 4th.
Despite controversy of 2007 rankings
placing the renown American universi-
ty Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy (MIT) below Imperial, MIT have
remained so; albeit by a smaller mar-
gin of ranking for 2008. Many Ameri-
can universities disregard the Times
Higher Education rankings in favour
of Shanghai Jiao Tong University’s ta-
bles, which conveniently rank eight
American universities in their top ten.
In contrast to the THE rankings, Impe-
rial are placed 27th, whilst MIT stand
in a commanding 5th place.
Imperial scored perfect 100s in Staff/
Student, International Students, and
Employer Review scores, and aver-
aged at 98.4, 0.2 points behind 5th
place. The Times Higher Education re-
vamped their ranking methodology in
2007, with Imperial taking great strides
up the tables due to the introduction of
graduate recruitment scoring.
Top British universities have taken a
fall as a whole, with both Cambridge
and Oxford also slipping a single rank-
ing. Bloomsbury-based UCL bucked
this trend and actually climbed 2 plac-
es to 7th; sniffing Imperial’s figurative
backside one ranking behind.
Nope, we don’t know how the scoring works either. Go figure.
the particular operation they may re-
quire, which is accompanied with them
to the operating theatre. The Trust has
not commented on wether or not any
of those responsible had been sus-
pended, however one senior surgeon at
the hospital told The Times this week
that “Heads are bound to roll.”
Sales in food from the Main Dining
Hall (MDH) have declined by 27% in
one year, so it may have escaped your
notice that the option of buying hot
meals has been replaced by a £5 per
head ‘all you can eat’ ‘oriental’ buffet.
Unfortunately, the term ‘all you can
eat’ should technically be replaced by
‘all you can stack on your plate the first
time you go to the counter’ and ‘orien-
tal’ should be replaced by ‘anywhere
in Asia’. As some students have put it,
this option doesn’t compare favourably
with the Oriental Canteen in South
Kensington- Chinese food at about
£3.50 to £4.00 for a main course, or the
Queen’s Arms- gastro-pub style of food
which starts at around £6 for a main
course. The only other hot food on
campus, available to undergraduates,
is in the Junior Common Room [JCR]
and consists of soup, paninis, burgers
or fried chicken. Several student have
written into felix complaining that this
is unsatisfactory, as there isn’t a realis-
tic, healthy alternative.
Jane Neary, head of catering and con-
ferencing at Imperial, explained to felix
that as well as declining food sales, the
hot counters used in the MDH were
not able to keep food hot enough to
satisfy health and safety regulations.
Jane Neary commented that “some-
thing drastic” had to be done to tackle
the falling sales and health standards,
which is why a buffet was chosen.
The option of opening an oriental
buffet on campus appealed because of
the high Asian population at Imperial.
It was also pointed out that the buffet
is only a temporary solution until the
problems with the MDH can be re-
solved. What is unclear to this reporter
is why buffet chafing dishes are able
to hold the heat better than the hot
counters.
felix had also received a review of
the food at the buffet, which included
comments about the poor quality and
poor attempts to imitate oriental dish-
es. One student even wrote in to say
that the MDH served “slimy noodles,
terrible egg-fried rice and deep-fried
vegetables.”
The oriental buffet will be reviewed
at the end of the week (sales made in
the MDH during the first week were
disregarded due to the fact that it was
Freshers’ Week). However, if queues in
the JCR and DaVinci’s are anything to
go by (note: food is also served in dB’s-
no, I didn’t know either!), sales of the
new buffet have been lower than the
school-dinner food of old and change
can be expected soon.
In comparison to the JCR, anyone
lucky enough to be allowed into the
Senior Common Room [SCR], will
know that College are capable of pro-
viding edible hot meals starting from
£4.25, as well as the option of choos-
ing your own salad - a privilege that
has been taken away from the under-
graduates in the JCR.
Top: queue in daVinci’s. Bottom: Oriental buffet in the Main Dining Hall
Street art hits the union quad
News corespondent, Afonso Campos, was supposed to write an
article, but he didn’t, so we put in a picture instead!

