comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 17 October 2008 felix
Comment
6 felix Friday 17 October 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
This just in
A. Geek
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
Caz Knight
G
lobal warming has
stepped aside and let
credit crunch/crisis/
commotion take centre
stage. The very word
‘crunch’ evokes the image of our world-
ly possessions crushed under our col-
lapsing homes, forced into dilapidation
by our impending poverty. But for all
the frequency with which we hear that
phrase (and others such as ‘recession’,
‘FTSE’ and ‘merchant banker’) I won-
der how many people actually know
what the Hell is going on and what im-
plications it will have on us. It is with
some timorousness that I embark on
this opinion, for I am a girl with lit-
tle experience of the world’s financial
markets and my experience of Canary
Wharf begins and ends in the tube sta-
tion’s extensive adjoining food court.
To sum up the fiscal events until this
point briefly and, I hope, not errone-
ously, it all began with banks in Amer-
ica lending money to homebuyers. The
bank used the claims on these home-
buyers’ mortgages as security for loans
the banks would take out themselves to
use for investments in hedge-funds, for
example. These investments took place
even before the homebuyers had paid
back their debts. It was only when the
banks had borrowed up to five times
what these original debts were worth,
that it become clear that homebuyers
were unable to pay off these mortgag-
es. Lehman Bros. had no option but
to close. We in the UK feel the shock
waves as many of the hedge-funds had
British banks investing. Any decrease
in a bank’s assets will have repercus-
sions on us, the savers. Less money for
them, less for us as they stop lending
to us in the form of credit. We are no
longer at liberty to spend tomorrow’s
money today.
What riles me most about this deba-
cle is just how the Media is portraying
the economic situation. My confusion
began when I read headlines telling us
of ‘meltdowns’, ‘Black Thursdays’ and
‘crises’. I look at the world around me
and everything is still in its place. I still
have my health, my friends, my family
and everything else I had before this
sensationalism: probably even more,
in fact. For a real crisis look at the car-
nage from a natural disaster or Zimba-
bwe. Admittedly, the economy has the
potential to wreak real havoc such as
death and famine but that is in the cir-
cumstances of a depression. We have
not even arrived at recession yet. If the
country reaches a state of depression, I
will eat my words.
However, the Media is doing a bril-
liant job of creating a recession by
inspiring fear and stinginess in the
population. This will only accelerate
the recession if less money is being
pumped into our economy. I despair
that people will blindly swallow what
the Media puts forth without consid-
ering: How much of my expenditure is
reliant on credit? Will the bank reduce
what it offers to lend me? And by how
much do I have to curb my spending? If
the answer is many hundreds or thou-
sands then you have every right to be
worried and I suggest you eat beans
out of the can for a while. (I enjoy this
habit: whatever my bank balance). So
the solution is to make sure you keep
spending but only the money you actu-
ally have. It seems I am asking rather
a lot of you especially after Britain has
bred a litter of borrowers hooked on
loans before they have left the womb.
I am in a very easy, comfortable posi-
tion to look with disdain upon the hype
of our present economic situation. I
don’t own any credit cards and so am
only able to spend money I actually
have. Whilst enjoying a particularly
overpriced cocktail distinctly lacking
in alcohol on the King’s Road with a
friend, a middle-aged man of banking
profession sat at the table next to us –
“No shopping today, Ladies?” – clearly
frazzled and anxious at the prospect of
things to come. A double whiskey was
ordered swiftly and I felt his frustra-
tion as they fluffed his order. This time
must be stroke-inducing for those at
the helm of our banks and markets,
their heart rates rising as stocks and
shares plummet: not to mention their
Christmas bonuses.
Whatever the events and the future,
I think the Media needs to desist in the
incessant coverage of this subject until
when we actually need to worry.
Rampage of idealism
Gilead Amit
T
he hubbub surround-
ing the fashionista sluts
in Hangman a few weeks
backwasquiteasurpriseto
me when I picked up Felix
last week. Despite living with women
in the vicinity, I’d had no idea that the
piece had caused offence, as I’d taken it
as more of a mockery of male attitudes
rather than women. Having said that, I
think some of my female friends did try
to tell me something, it was just hard
to hear them with the hoover going
and the door to the kitchen shut all the
time. I’m sure it was nothing.
What surprised me, you see, is that
someone had an emotional response
to something they read in the press.
I’d taken it as read that we just ignored
what people wrote in newspapers and
the like nowadays. Why else would I
write this column. The only time I’ve
felt moved by a newspaper headline
was when I was told that Jade Goody
had a fifty-fifty chance of survival, and
that was because the one thing you
expect to be able to depend on in this
world – terminal illness – had man-
aged to fail on me spectacularly. So in
general the press only are there to of-
fer me crosswords, comedy-sized pho-
tographs I can annotate with various
genitalia sketches, and the occasional
FREE! soundtrack from a movie I’ve
never heard of, usually starring Alec
Guinness.
I think a real contributing factor
here is that most people who write
for newspapers are exactly the kind of
people whose opinion you don’t want
to hear. To be a journalist you need,
broadly, two key attributes: the ability
to generate what’s called ‘filler’ – mind-
less chatter to boost word counts, also
known as ‘articles’ if you work for The
Metro – and the ability to manipulate
text. Ninety-five percent of journal-
ists go into an interview with someone
knowing exactly what they want when
they leave. Unsurprisingly, they always
manage to get it, and that’s by twisting,
shearing and mushing up the words
until they spell out the right phrase. It’s
like playing Scrabble with the Cookie
Monster.
These two things combine to form
this horrific concoction of hypocrisy,
sensationalism and general ranting,
and I’ve not found a single paper that
isn’t susceptible to it. Everything from
the FT to felix has writers who are will-
ing to bullshit their way through eight
hundred words, and crowbar events
into a moral-of-the-story cookie cutter.
And when it’s Jade Goody being crow-
barred and bullshitted, why should I
care? Frankly, I’d like it if the crowbar
was actually made of bullshit. But it
permeates everywhere, and everyone
seems to think they’re the ones who
read the ‘right’ version of events.
It’s tiresome, because the people who
really shouldn’t be acting like arseholes
end up gibbering and flailing copies of
The Independent at you, screaming
bloody murder and conspiracy theo-
ries. I’m surprised you morons aren’t
up in arms about this because the ma-
jority of the press is taking the piss out
of you on a regular basis.
TheLondonPaper’s attempt at ‘un-
derstanding’ LOLcats last week was a
good example of this, with the journal-
istic equivalent of your parents discuss-
ing rap music making up a beautiful
one-page feature on the ‘phenomenon’
that has ‘millions hooked’. LOLcats is
a firm favourite in the Felix offices, of
course, but trying to understand and
concoct a page’s worth of something
that you probably only heard about the
day you were commissioned to write
about it results in the kind of writing
that would only really entertain people
that had been dead for three to four
hours already.
When they chose to cover the
switch-on at the LHC – and I’ve been
unable to find anyone that can debunk
rumours that the BBC actually asked
for a big red button to be installed for
their news coverage – one paper ac-
tually printed a photo of a computer
screen with a graph on it, and anno-
tated it with a caption saying “IS THIS
A BLACK HOLE?”.
No, it’s a fucking peak on a line
graph. It’s probably the power con-
sumption of their air control system as
a thousand idiotic journalists suddenly
started sweating at absolutely fuck all
happening where they’d promised their
live viewers apocalypse and cries of
Eureka.
It’s just gut-wrenchingly sad more
than anything, maybe particularly so
for anyone who’s ever had a hope of
writing as a living in the future. Be-
cause the sad truth is that once you
hit freelance work you’ll slowly realise
that to make any money, you’ll need to
throw away notions of changing things
forever in favour of, well, going along
with everyone else.
And that doesn’t justify anything
that’s out there. I’m not even saying
that Hangman’s opening misogyny
spectacular was the sort of thing you’d
expect to see in your average national
publication. But we’re not a national
publication. We’re a student paper.
And it’s our comedy pull-out section.
And it’s got a photo of the Oxford rec-
tor with lasers coming out of his eyes.
And to be quite frank, if you’re still
into taking things like that seriously
then subscribe to The Daily Mail, get
the cardboard out, and start writing a
stiff letter on it to anangrygeek@goog-
lemail.com.
T
here must be a word to
describe the combination
of phobias that I have. I
would imagine some hid-
eous Greco-Latin mon-
strosity with an indecent number of
prefixes. I’m not in the mood to start
scouring www.phobialist.com at the
moment but I have no doubt that it
would furnish me with the answer. To
tell the truth, now that I come to think
about it it’s probably something quite
short and pithy, because what I have is
by no means unusual. Just pathetic.
The truth is that I’m afraid of change.
I abhor any alteration to the routines
I’ve laid down for myself. I am the fud-
diest of duddies and the muddiest of
sticks. For a stinking wreck of neuro-
ses, though, I can still coin the occa-
sional euphonious phrase.
I’m sorry – this is misleading. It
sounds as though I’m either going to
relate some amusing anecdotes about
my aversion to change or provide you
with a fool-proof guide to emotional
stability and mental openness. I’m
afraid I can’t do either. My own psyche
is still a construction site, and far be it
for the man with builders in the attic
to give out DIY tips with any degree of
confidence.
There is, however, one remarkable
product that can be acquired safely
and legally and is guaranteed to help.
It’s been around for a while, but the
modern-day ultra-refined version has
lost none of its power. I’m talking about
Humour. It’s a phenomenal concept
with a fascinating history and incred-
ible, almost instantaneous results.
It is no coincidence that we humans
simultaneously have a sense of humour
and an (albeit superficial) understand-
ing of the Universe: the two unques-
tionably go hand-in-hand. The Uni-
verse is an inherently ridiculous place:
I don’t need to quote Douglas Adams
at you to make my point. The more
complete our awareness of our mind-
boggling insignificance, the more ri-
diculous our existence seems. This is
enough to drive some to despair, oth-
ers to madness, others still to religion,
some to science, some to philosophy
and a large proportion of all of the
above to humour.
I am a great uplifter-onto-pedestals.
I am also unusually fond of hyphena-
tion, but that’s a different issue. For me,
comedy is on a par with science and art.
Not a subdivision of either but equal
to both. The Universe is a mysterious,
terrifying, incomprehensible and the-
saurus-burstingly vast place for things
as insignificant as us to find ourselves
in. We are grossly underequipped to
dealing with it, but we’re doing pretty
well for the grandchildren of apes.
Our genuine attempts to fill in the
black hole-like gaps in our knowledge
take the form of scientific investiga-
tion and artistic expression. The quest
to find the logical order behind why
external reactions and behaviours are
as they are, and the equally insatiable
need to find the order behind our in-
ternal reactions and behaviours. Many
less talented or original souls attempt
to garner some understanding from re-
ligion – wasting their time on lazy and
stultifying acts of self-deception and
truly futile re-interpretations of the
original work of others.
But comedy ranks up there with both
science and art. It came as a relief to me
earlier this week to discover that the
Ancient Greeks had a muse of comedy,
as well as the more well-known muses
of history, tragedy, dance and astrono-
my. Their priorities, as ever, were spot
on. Because it literally is vitally impor-
tant to find things funny. Take away
a sense of humour and you remove
a sense of perspective. Funny things
might not necessarily be less evil or
unpleasant than unfunny ones, but at
least we feel that we understand them.
The ability to summarize a situation
in a joke or an amusing cartoon effec-
tively neutralizes it, strapping it to the
operating table where you can examine
it without fear. Laughing at something
means you can tell where its limits are;
that you can see the places where it
borders on the ridiculous. That gives
us the feeling of certainty and control
we desperately need.
Lifeissomind-bogglinglyabsurdthat
all you can really do about it is laugh.
The more nervous and uncertain you
are, the more hilarious everything be-
comes. Hence the fine line between a
baby’s tears and giggles, the frenzied
sex jokes that plague high school sex
ed teachers the world over, and the
obsession with paedophilia, death,
sexual fetishes and genocide that char-
acterises the humour of young adults.
These last few are the things that scare
us most. We are too old to lock the
bogeymen in the closet and pretend
they don’t exist, but also too young, in
many cases, to have experienced them
directly. We float in a pristine pool that
we are desperate to prove is as mud-
died as anything that surrounds us.
I am tremendously lenient when it
comes to borderline jokes because I
know and share the motivating force
behind them: our attempts to make
some sort of sense of the randomness
of existence, to categorize and ex-
plicitly describe the things we are too
scared or uncomfortable to directly
confront. There will always be idiots
with no sense of comic timing, cre-
tins who have no idea what audience
is appropiate for what sort of joke, and
bigots who genuinely find racey jokes
funny for the wrong reasons. Ignore
them. Examine the context. The world
of comedy should not have heavily-po-
liced borders, but rather well-defined
ceasefire lines we recognize and get
giddy thrills from treading.
We’re scared. We’re alone. There is
evil out there as well as genuine apa-
thy, which is infinitely more frighten-
ing. Humour is what allows us to get
through unspeakable trauma and face
up to our own inevitable brutality and
decay. At the end of the day, it’s all we
have.
A votive offering to Thalia
L
ast issue felix asked us to de-
bate the rights and wrongs
of the case of Palestinian
student Zohair Abu-Shaban
and the denial of his passage
through either Israel or Egypt by the
Israeli administration to allow him to
attend his MSc at Imperial this year.
However, I am sure that most people
would be of the opinion that no debate
is needed at all. This is a gross viola-
tion of the rights of an aspiring, award-
winning student and the only thing we
need to talk about is what, if anything,
we can do.
Ireally,trulyhopethatstudentsatIm-
perial are aware of the absolute squalor
that is the Gaza strip and the horren-
dous life the people have to endure in
the Palestinian / Occupied territories
– and if you don’t, you are an ignorant
loser. If there is anything that can pro-
mote peace or some improvement in
the region then it is not building walls
and segregating the indigenous com-
munities, but instead education and
gestures of good-will. What possible
benefit the Israeli administration sees
in stealing aspirations from positively
motivated individuals, I just do not
know. Conversely, what I do know is
the usual apathetic response we can
expect from the relevant embassies
and offices. I would love to see what
they say if one of their own children
was stopped dead in his or her educa-
tional tracks. Somehow, I don’t think
paltry excuses about “hostile govern-
ments” would hold…
I do not think it is unreasonable for
us to ask the College and the Union
to take this matter seriously, and I am
sure things are being done, but I would
like to see the student body at Imperial
being kept aware through regular com-
munication. Plus, I also think there is
a good case for students at Imperial to
rally together and get an active cam-
paign and petition going that can in-
clude people from all walks of life and
political persuasions. Since this case
has already received attention in the
national media, it is possible to have a
significant impact.
There was another case in the past
when a Palestinian student called
Khaled was denied the opportunity
to pursue a better life through similar
restrictions but thankfully British stu-
dents were able to organise a campaign
large enough to counter this. Now that
Khaled is in Britain and has started a
national organisation that we can also
turn to for support (www.letpalstudy.
org.uk), I feel optimistic that together
we can do the same again.
The plight of Zohair
Ammar
Waraich
I
t has all gone so very wrong. The
economy crumbles! Inflation
soars! The weather is colder! Oh,
it is you. I am ever so sorry, I did
not realise that you were here.
Your term has started? How important!
How note-worthy! The ramifications
will ripple across the Universe, ending
stars, destroying galaxies and threaten-
ing the very fabric of existence itself!
A million people tremble at the
sound of the faintest remnants of the
echoes of your footsteps! You are the
rocks of the eternal shore; all that
crashes against you is broken! Neither
Perdition’s Flame nor Heaven’s Light
could enlighten that which was in your
shadow. Your name is Ozymandias,
King of Kings: Look on your works, ye
Mighty, and despair!
Ozymandias, indeed. You are at Im-
perial now where all your accomplish-
ments are as the monuments of the
Pharaohs: buried beneath the desert
sands. Your worth here can be meas-
ured and weighed, and any calibrated
scale will tell you that your value is ex-
actly equal to the cost of your tuition
fees.
To think, people lose their jobs and
homes because you are forcing the
Government to spend all its money
provide you with an extremely gener-
ous loan. You monster! You heartless
creature of the abyss! Do the screams
of the children you, and you alone, are
causing to starve bring you joy? Are
your emotions so warped and twisted
that making trillions upon trillions of
people suffer is the only way that you
might feel a flicker of long-forgotten
joy?
It was debt that caused the economy
to revert to the club-to-the-face-your-
stuff-now-mine economic model em-
ployed by our cave-dwelling ancestors,
in the age before Adam Smith wrote
his magnum opus, ‘Why It Is Right
and Proper That Poor People Ought
to Starve and That Banks Should Lend
More Money Than Exists Because
Keynesian Economics Will Have Been
Invented By The Time It Becomes An
Issue’ (they were fond of long titles in
his day).
Where was I? Ah yes, hello, welcome
and all that. If you are a returning stu-
dent I hope the wretched stupidity that
is affirmative action towards peasants
has not blighted your test scores. My
father endowed the College with a
chair and yet my exams were still grad-
ed based upon my performance, like a
commoner! How is it fair that I must
endure such a handicap? Since when
did money cease to make me superior
to others?
In any just society I would have been
awarded a PhD there and then. They
won’t even give the money back so I
cannot cheer myself up by having peo-
ple thrown in rivers by ninja-butlers.
Viscount
Kensington
It’s all gone wrong
The muses. Thalia, second from the left, is the muse of comedy and bucolic poetry. Just a bit of context.
“
We’re
scared. We’re
alone. There is
evil out there as
well as genuine
apathy, which is
infinitely more
frightening.
”

