comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 17 October 2008 felix
Comment
8 felix Friday 17 October 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Jaimie Henry
Imperial... what a load of bankers
P
eople complain about the
credit crunch too much.
“Oooh, the banks are col-
lapsing,” “I’ve lost all my
money,” “I’ve got no house,”
are just some of the whines I have
heard in the last couple of months. Al-
though I should probably stop discuss-
ing complex economic theories with
tramps. But I’ve been looking for that
silver lining and, not being able to see
the wood for the trees, have just found
it here at Imperial.
It’s not the fact that eventually com-
panies won’t be able to give out free
razors, so self-absorbed feminist wan-
nabees can go write into university
newspapers complaining about how
it’s an affront to their human rights
(despite such razors coming with
bottles of – traditionally manly – eye
makeup remover), although admit-
tedly this would be nice. It’s not even
that eventually the notion of top up
fees will have to be abolished or that an
unfamiliar system of overfunded com-
prehensive polytechnics are consist-
ently beaten by decrepit grammar uni-
versities – although again it would be a
relief that Lord Patten will have some
other elitist tripe to trawl on about.
What is nice, however, is the fact that
the banks are collapsing. There is the
general sentiment that we shouldn’t be
bailing out the banks because they’ve
broughtthisallonthemselves,but£288
per person on the Earth is a small price
to pay for preventing the end of the
economic world. What we shouldn’t be
doing is bailing the bankers out.
You may like to think that the cur-
rent climate would mean no more big
bonuses and certainly no more cham-
pagne, but parasites that work in bank-
ing will find a way to keep hold of their
trophy wives. It will mean, however,
that Imperial’s endless supply of free
pens, cuddly toys, textbooks and god
knows whatever else is being pushed
onto students by Botox-faced “execu-
tives” who would be quite happy push-
ing crack to kids if it served their pur-
pose. The result (not-with-standing
the Union Stationary Shop income
skyrocketing), would probably be that
students will follow careers in their
chosen disciplines.
I personally can’t see the point in
doing a Physics Masters for four years
or an Engineering PhD for six when
all the graduates then intend to do is
gamble away mine and everyone else’s
money in some jumped-up office in the
City before they go home and get their
rocks off. Students spent years and
huge amounts of debt training as these
professionals, and to claim it’s all for
“transferable skills” is like claiming sex
is a transferable skill for rape. Maybe it
is a caveat of the government’s policy
of cramming people into universities
left right and centre, but if these stu-
dents go on to work in these fields it
can be no bad thing. But they won’t. Is
it such a strange concept to fresh-faced
18 year old applicants to actually want
to do the subjects they apply for? Prob-
ably not, but the lure of fast cars and
bonuses does much to corrupt people,
which is something we could really do
without at the moment. I know I’m not
the most moral of people, but cleaning
tarmac is expensive, and the last thing
we need at the moment is more jump-
ers. That and more homelessness and
divided families, such as in the 90’s.
I don’t honestly believe for one mo-
ment that all the ills in the world can
be solved by banning this charade of
broadcasting propaganda, thinly veiled
as “careers fairs” and no doubt some
students make the decision to go into
finance for completely altruistic or aca-
demic reasons. But allowing such insti-
tutionalised greed to be sanitised and
force-fed into the mouths of students is
going to do nothing but perpetuate the
gluttony that has already engulfed the
financial sector and currently threatens
to take us all down with it. So maybe,
just maybe, the impending doom that
is the credit crunch might make things
a little lighter on our shores, even if we
do run short on biros.
Dan Wan N
ow that you’re reading
my article after being
utterly perplexed but si-
multaneously intrigued
by its headline, I can se-
verely disappoint you. Another moan
about public transport? Yes, sirree.
Damn fucking right and it’s all justified
too.
TFL, you sons of a collective bitch,
why do you bother charging me horrific
amounts of money each week to sit on
the sweaty tin cans you call trains and
buses, getting progressively annoyed
until I end up getting off and walking
the rest of the way, because it always
turns out to be quicker? All right, that’s
not entirely true; I once had to hobble
all the way home after trying to jump
a railing in Piccadilly Circus, failing
and ending up effectively hurling my-
self across the pavement to the horror-
cum-amusement of Spanish tourists.
That time definitely took longer than
the train I would have been on.
Come January, another price hike
will see minimum fares on the Under-
ground rise to £1.60, and buses to £1.
Boris blames Ken, and as a retort, Ken
nasally goads the people of London
for voting Boris into office. Fuck both
of you, Mayors of London (Seriously, I
still don’t get that. On what, Ken? On
your mum.)
I’m all riled up and unnaturally ag-
gravated at this time of day, and it’s all
down to a couple of horrific experienc-
es over these last couple of days. Re-
wind to last Sunday evening, and you’ll
see me standing at Notting Hill Gate
coming back from the shitty part of my
week where I get treated like dirt as a
Sales Assistant. I’ve decided to subject
myself to the seemingly unconnected
branches of the District Line for rea-
sons unknown to man. All I want to do
is get back home (Fulham Broadway)
via a simple 7-minute ride on a Wim-
bledon-bound train. “Next Wimbledon
train within 6 minutes,” the dot matrix
board states. Fast forward an hour
later, and I’m on the platform of High
Street Ken, the station one stop down
the line. The Wimbledon train took 26
minutes, not 6 as promised. All Under-
ground staff hate you. They only open
the disabled gates for you because they
truly think you’re disabled, when re-
ally you’re only limping because you’ve
kicked a train door open in frustration
moments before, when the driver for-
got to open the doors and walked off to
take an undeserved break.
I expect a little less of London buses,
since they’re cheaper, and drivers have
to have some skill other than pulling a
lever up and down in accordance to red
and green lights. Today though, this
driver figuratively took the piss, and
literally took the wrong bus route. De-
spite several diversion signs and road
blockages, he managed to ignore them
all, and found himself doing a three-
point-turn on Kensington Church
Street. To top it all off, he decides that
he’s too good a driver for the usual bus
stop I get off at, and skips it altogether.
Why the hell not, eh?
Not all bus drivers have the IQ of
Hangman’s scrotum, though. Since
College insist on giving us CID cards
that use the same swipe technology as
Oyster cards, I’m sure every Imperial
student, at some point, probably when
drunk coming back from the Vodka-
Red Bull addled night in Tiger Tiger,
has inadvertently swiped their Col-
lege card on an Oyster reader only to
be met with the red light of shame and
buzzer noise of rejection. The one on
a par with that infamous Family For-
tunes ‘wah-woh’ noise.
Normally though, the driver just
wants to get home because, after all,
its 4am, and he probably has some
sort of life that doesn’t involve shift-
ing hundreds of drunk fucks around
London. So, he waves you onto the bus
without a fare, thinking you’re just too
cheap to have any credit on your Oys-
ter. And amongst the mess that is your
brain after 11 cheap drinks, you think,
‘Wow that was actually a kind gesture
of trust.’ So, you decide to say to him
“You’re well safe, son. Let me give you a
biscuit.” I didn’t have any biscuits.
“You’re well safe, son. Let me give you a
biscuit.”
A
sFreshers’Weekfinished,
I, for one, breathed a sigh
of relief. It’s bad enough
that this is my second
Freshers’ week at a fresh
new university – that’s right, I’m a
postgraduate student, remember, we
exist here too? – chock full of the same
old hype and breathless banalities I’ve
encountered before. Now I can get on
with my university life – not what Mr
Student Cliche, in his many guises, says
my university life should be, which, if
the general events and psyche of all
that excitable ‘Fresher’ literature is to
be believed, consists of rampant drink-
ing every night (and indeed if that’s
so, why do so many societies insist on
inconveniently putting recruiting ses-
sions in the early hours of the day?),
collecting swathes of phone numbers
in a couple of days, and studying to get
a top class degree in tandem.
Forgive me for being a grumpy old
postgrad of 23 years old, but I didn’t
manage to make the ‘drink every night
with your new friends!’ quota for
Freshers’ week the first time round,
when my liver was a healthy 18 years-
old and I was as fresh-faced and shiny-
eyed as I was ever likely to get. I like a
social drink.
Actually, I love a social drink. But
hangovers, beer goggles and unwise
encounters, the college human petri
dish, or, at the worst, heartfelt drunken
vomiting, do not a happy introduc-
tion to university make, and I’ll haz-
ard that I cannot be the only one who
woke up depressed and remorseful on
my second day of university. This time
round, things are also even more dif-
ficult, since I’m still busy enough try-
ing to find my way around London
and the area where I live- like almost
every other postgrad in private hous-
ing, usually just falling under an hour
away from Imperial (or closer to two
hours by night bus if you want to make
the late events, and in a strange, prone-
to-be-lost-in city? Difficult), and locate
all the necessary rooms essential to my
college life.
Most of us agreed that Freshers’
Week was centred , for the majority,
around undergraduates. And here’s
the really irritating thing I had to face
again – Fresher’s Guilt. This is the
distinctive Guilt that seeps in if you
*don’t* ‘go drinking every evening with
Freshers’ Week... it’s finally over
your new friends’ (and supposing you
haven’t located those new, often mad-
deningly elusive, glorious bastards
yet, or lost them in the human soup
of Freshers’ fair, anyway?) and instead
find yourself stepping back to your pad
for a quiet night in with your silent mo-
bile phone. Supposing you’ve had your
fill of small talk and attempts to break
into protective first-week cliques, well
too bad. You’re an adult, you’re at your
new university, you’re in a week of pur-
ported hedonism, and you’re not Out
There Being Part Of It. Being forced to
have fun at awkward events can be bad,
but being forced to feel like you should
definitely be having fun is worse.
I admired efforts to secure vaguely
famous entertainment names on two
nights of the week- one up on my old
uni there- but might I suggest welcom-
ing events that don’t involve late nights
and cocktails at the Union, but instead
free food and movie nights, lunchtime
barbeques, theatre shows, society dis-
plays, and dinners? Might I suggest
that those producing written material
for Freshers stop drawing on the same
boring cliches? Yes, I get it... Freshers
can’t cook, wash laundry, or even wash
themselves, if this year’s handbook is
to be believed. Freshers are cute, naive,
and good looking, like bunny rabbits.
Freshers will soon become proudly
cynical and hardened like the current
2nd or 3rd years, like weasels. Fresh-
ers will be partying madly all the time,
having the best years of their life (it’s
all downhill from here, folks!) whilst
simultaneously breezing through the
three or more most academically chal-
lenging and trying years of their life. I
can only assume this last statement is
true, since most writers prefer not to
detail much about the realities of aca-
demic study at university when there’s
egotistical, lazy fun to be poked at new
students. References to the lingering
stung pride of supposedly being Ox-
bridge rejects, ho-ho, never gets old,
the potential Dark Path of investment
banking / management consulting /
‘corporate whoring’ (seems to be the
trendy term now) which no doubt lies
ahead in the Real World for the naive
new student... sigh.
Here’s a few tips. First, stop patron-
ising Freshers. Sure, we need help in
getting integrated with Imperial, but
stop writing all the old cliches. Not all
of us are a) Undergraduates b) Naive c)
Amused. Second, break away from the
boring pattern of evening alcohol as a
medium to fun and new pals in Fresh-
ers Week and find better ways to get
us used to this place. Third, for God’s
sake stop insisting that these are going
to be the best years of anyone’s life, or
else continue sowing seeds of unneces-
sary worry in the minds of those who,
eventually realising that in a short time
the supposed best years are going to be
over and yet life still doesn’t feel like
Elysium and ambrosia now, that they
clearly are doing university wrong.
Fourth, hide the level of sexual frustra-
tion seeping into certain felix writings
(irrelevant but there seems a heck of a
lot of sexual innuendo and male roger-
ing jokes pasted through what I’ve read
of felix’s more casual laddish pieces so
far, there’s no game in trying to spot
it).
Honestly? So far, I’m very much look-
ing forward to a year of Imperial. No,
I’m not a bitter and scarred old young
killjoy, I’m happy to be here. But boy,
am I glad I got through Freshers’ Week
again. Now my university life can actu-
ally begin.
Annabel
Slater
I
found your response to the
Hangman section strangely sad.
You seem to be labouring under
the misapprehension that the
authors were being remotely
serious!
Let x be the length of time you have
spent at Imperial College. As some-
body who has endured Imperial life for
(3x + 12)/3.75 (Sorry I couldn’t resist
an Imperial joke…) I’ll give you some
advice about how to survive this ter-
rible experience of being surrounded
by desperate men. If you want to ex-
perience real sexual harassment – go
and get a job on a building site/oil rig,
or as a fire-fighter, or even in a bank!
These are places where attitudes will
not change no matter how many let-
ters you write and in which the women
who work are the ones really making a
difference to womens’ rights. The only
way in which you get some respect is
through hard work, a good sense of
humour and looking all right in a skirt
when you go for a drink after work.
We will always live in a society where
men and women don’t have equal
rights, this is because they are differ-
ent. Do yourself a favour and look at
the real inequality and injustice in the
world and don’t harp on about a group
of lads just having a joke.
Yours
LC (PG)
Dear Susie Peng/
Chao Cui
W
hat appeared in the
Hangman section
that caused this
uproar was clearly
not a serious ar-
ticle. In fact, as one may have figured
out from the name HaxzorMcRandy_1
we are clearly dealing with someone
who spends a considerable time of his
life on the Internet. Not only that, but
given the titles like epic Fail and at least
over 9000 more hints within his arti-
cles, he has clearly crawled from the
dark side of the Internet.
Anyway, what I was meaning to get
to, is that he is what is known as a
troll… and an obvious, though success-
ful, one at that. If you’re now thinking
of a large fat creature that has more
muscles than brains… or even worse
some messed-up warped WoW ver-
sion of this mythical creature I should
explain in a bit more detail. Everything
that was stated in those articles was
overdone and tailored specifically to
strike a nerve and trigger a reaction,
and doesn’t necessarily reflect the true
opinion of the author, yet alone Impe-
rial as a whole.
This is a common practice on the Net
and is referred to as trolling…those
people who are naïve enough to take
the comments seriously in turn have
“been trolled”, and hardly deserves a
“rallying of the silent majority”.
That said, whether such articles and
trolls should necessarily be represented
in our student newspaper, or whether
this is a form of humour that is best
kept to the forums it belongs to, is per-
haps a question both the editor and the
author should consider carefully.
Yours
Lulzkiller
T
oday I received an insult
(whoops... I’ve just been
informed that they’re ac-
tually ‘witty retorts’) and
laughed. That’s right. Me.
Woman. Sexist (joke) insult. Laugh.
Some people at this university really
need to grab the rod that is shoved
so far up their arse that they can’t ap-
preciate a joke, give it a good twist and
ever so carefully remove it from their
overused orifice. Okay... Deep breath...
In case you haven’t gathered, this
is being written in response to our
‘amusement’ stimulated by a certain
cliché-ridden article in last week’s fe-
lix (we had to force ourselves to finish
the bloody thing to write about it in its
entirety).
Now we’ve read the article which has
obviously caused such great offence
(you know... balanced opinion etcetera
etcetera), and ended up feeling quite
sorry for Haxz0rMcRandy_1 (if he
needs to repeatedly tell us about his
conquests... it’s obvious he hasn’t had
one since his Freshers’ Week). As for a
certain ‘feminine’ article - firstly, there
has been a massive sense of humour
failure on the author’s behalf and those
who so needlessly showed support to
their article by allowing their names to
appear in association with it. Secondly,
there are a number of things inherently
wrong with their arguments.
As if to alienate all the supposed tar-
get readers, the article starts by sug-
gesting that most women who come
to study at Imperial do so under the
influence of some strange penis envy.
In actual fact we’re confident that
most women at Imperial are happy be-
ing female ‘despite starting at a male-
dominated university’. In our year at
Imperial, we’ve never felt it necessary
to minimise or conceal our femininity.
Why do bachelors
like smart women?
The female Freshers do need to ac-
climatise themselves to this inherent
maleness though; by choosing to study
Science (and we don’t mean by choos-
ing to study at a scientific institution)
they will be subjected to this form of
humour throughout their working
life. It’s different to our normal sense
of humour but that doesn’t mean that
by appreciating it you will automati-
cally grow stubble and learn to burp
in public. Variation is good for your
soul, or so we’ve been told. You do find
the occasional specimen who is just a
wanker, but if you actually take a good
look at the men making these jokes
they’re not being offensive (in some
cases it may actually be an attempt at
flirting... the odds are good and all that
jazz). All these ‘feminine’ whingers
are doing is showing our male peers
that we can’t take a joke. Well we can.
Enough is enough. We are “making our
voices heard”.
Yes... the felix team often end up be-
ing arrogant arseholes, but they are
amusing arseholes... and that’s why we
continue to read their articles week af-
ter week... term after term – somehow
out of the depths of their shit they do
manage to make us laugh. The male
humour at our institution is one of my
favourite things about this place. By
the end of the summer I found myself
laughing to the “your mum” jokes my
friends would have said... I actually
missed the blunt, crude, sexist, imma-
ture – especially the immature – com-
ments that they would have made.
To the authoress: I strongly recom-
mend that you cease to read the comi-
cal sections of felix... the satire is obvi-
ously too much for your brain.
In case you were wondering... Oppo-
sites Attract.
GSOH
required
Freshers enjoying themselves at this year’s Mingle
“
I admired
efforts to secure
vaguely famous
entertainment
names
”
One of the bendy buses around central London

