politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 17 October 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
“We’re not going to win this
war,” claims Commander
The commander of UK troops in Af-
ghanistan warned earlier this week that
the war against the Taliban will not be
won. This comes at a time when Brit-
ain is already stepping up pressure for
a political and diplomatic resolution to
the conflict.
Brigadier Mark Carleton-Smith said
“We’re not going to win this war,” .
“It’s about reducing it to a manageable
level of insurgency that’s not a strate-
gic threat and can be managed by the
Afghan army. We may well leave with
there still being a low but steady ebb of
rural insurgency.”
Carleton-Smith, commander of 16th
Air Assault Brigade, has just complet-
ed a six-month mission in southern
Afghanistan during which 32 of his
soldiers were killed and 170 injured.
Carleon-Smith remarked that his forc-
es had “taken the sting out of the Tali-
ban for 2008”. However, he warned that
the public should not expect “a decisive
military victory” so it is necessary to
“lower our expectations” and accept it
as unrealistic that multinational forces
can rid the country of armed militias.
The aim should be not to engage
in an endless military assault but to
change the nature of the debate in Af-
ghanistan so that disputes were settled
by negotiation rather than violence.
Carleton-Smith stating “If the Taliban
were prepared to sit on the other side
of the table and talk about a political
settlement, then that’s precisely the
sort of progress that concludes insur-
gencies like this. That shouldn’t make
people uncomfortable.”
Abdul Rahim Wardak, Afghanistan’s
defence minister, expressed disap-
pointment at the comments. However,
Carleton-Smith’s warning has been
echoed by a senior defence source who
told The Guardian “the notion of win-
ning and losing the decisive battle does
not exist.” Carleton-Smith added that
all the Nato-led international military
force could do in Afghanistan was pro-
vide the “parameters of security.”
These deepening concerns reflect
what British defence chiefs are say-
ing privately. The conflict with the
Taliban has reached a “stalemate” they
say. There is also increased frustration
with the weakness and corruption of
President Hamid Karzai’s government
in Kabul.
The French weekly Le Canard En-
chaîné reported that Sherard Cowper-
Coles, UK ambassador to Kabul, told
a French official that foreign troops
added to Afghanistan’s problems. Re-
portedly, Cowper-Coles said the coun-
try might best be “governed by an ac-
ceptable dictator”, that the American
UK Commander in Afghanistan, Mark Carleton-Smith, voices concern over the
direction of the war and advocates diplomacy.
strategy was “destined to fail” and the
presence of foreign troops was “part
of the problem, not the solution.” The
French foreign ministry said the news-
paper report did not “correspond at
all with what we hear from our Brit-
ish counterparts in our discussions on
Afghanistan.” Britain has denied that
it believes the military campaign is
doomed to failure. Writing on his web-
site, David Miliband, foreign secretary,
described the report as “garbled” and
insisted that Britain did not support a
Kabul dictatorship.
He wrote “The future of Afghanistan
is not about appointed dictators or for-
eign occupation, it is about building
Afghan capabilities with the confi-
dence of the Afghan people.”
A Foreign Office official was reported
to have described the claim that Cow-
per-Coles advocated a dictatorship in
Kabul as “utter nonsense” and that the
comments that have been attributed to
him are a distortion of what was said.
British officials are exasperated with
the Karzai administration, the slow
build up of a national army and cor-
ruption in the Afghan police force.
Violence in Afghanistan has risen
to its worst level since 2001, when the
US led coalition overthrew the Tali-
ban. However, since the invasion of
Iraq, Afghanistan has been left short of
troops and low on resources. The UK
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
general in Afghanistan has welcomed
various attempts to bring this short-
fall to light. In the recent Presidential
Debate, Obama strongly advocated the
expansion of the efforts in Afghanistan
while scaling back the military in Iraq.
Neither the US nor UK can afford
to fight in two wars at once; the strain
on the available resources is too great.
Many officials believe that the war in
Iraq was misguided not only legally but
also due to the effect it has had on the
fight against insurgency in Afghani-
stan, the main battleground against
terrorism. What all on the ground be-
lieve is that if troops were pulled out of
Iraq, a country in disarray, they could
be put to much better use in Afghani-
stan to speed up the transition to com-
plete Afghan control of the country.
Aid agencies say the Taliban and as-
sociated groups are controlling more
territory and it is increasingly difficult
to provide the population with their
humanitarian needs, let alone physical
security. The increase in power of the
Taliban and the unknown whereabouts
of Bin Laden give more reasons to in-
crease the coalition’s power.
After months of indecision and at-
tacking western diplomats and military
officials for approaching Taliban forces
to attempt a resolution, Karzai said last
week he had asked the king of Saudi
Arabia to mediate in negotiations.
Katya-yani Vyas
Politics Editor
Military tactics may soon give way to diplomacy as top UK officials call for change.
G
ood morning/afternoon/
evening! I hope that you
have settled into the new
term well. It will not be
long before your subject
consumes every morsel of spare time
you have, and in Imperial’s typical
soul-destroying style, drains you of the
will to follow world politics or anything
else for that matter.
Fear not though, myself and James
are here to help, and indeed feel free to
alleviate the science-induced headache
that you may be experiencing by con-
tributing to this section.
This week I have been treated to de-
risive looks when mentioning politics,
apparently it is, well, for want of a less
blunt expression, just plain boring.
Is that true? Im sure it isn’t, in fact to
prove the entertainment credentials of
the politics section I have undertaken
it as my mission to find the most bi-
zarre story in politics that I could. bi-
zarre equates to interesting, doesn’t it?
Of course it does.
Trawling through internet sites in
the small hours of the morning seemed
to be more conducive than attempting
to play charades with my desk lamp.
However I did eventually come across
a plethora of ridiculousness.
At a time when politicians are des-
perately trying to coax the percentage
of the population that does not vote
into supporting them, one woman in
Newmarket (near Cambridge) was so
keen that she succeeded in registering
two of her cows and her dog to vote.
Registering them under the names of
“Henry and Sophie Bull” and “John
Woofies”, she was able to make the ap-
plication appear to be legitimate. She
has now been fined £189 by the coun-
cil, with one official describing the sit-
uation as a “real Cock and Bull story.”
Oh what larks!
In other news Canada’s Absolutely
Absurd Party has reiterated its policies.
These include lowering the legal voting
age to 14, citing the tantalising reason-
ing that; “a 14-year-old has never start-
ed a war” as well as plans to streamline
the Department of Defence by replac-
ing it with a elite crack squad of rock/
paper/scissors commandos. Gordon
Brown take note, playground politics is
most definitely the way forward.
So there you have it, I had fun, I hope
you did. Perhaps the creation of satiri-
cal parties will encourage politicians to
take themselves less seriously.
While we are on the subject of tak-
ing ourselves too seriously and for that
matter, bizarre stories, this week it was
brought to our attention that a fierce
anti-felix campaign has been launched
by some members of the student body.
The catalyst to their remonstrations
happens to be the hangman article, en-
titled “Dont Do Badly Dressed Girls”.
Opinion is welcomed at felix but there
are much more constructive ways to
get involved in student politics.
I shall be reverting back to more se-
rious subject matter next time but for
the moment I am off to hone my rock,
paper, scissors technique in time for
the next elections.
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 17 October 2008 felix
Politics
The Kurdish Quest for Nationhood
At the end of the nineteenth century
we saw the first recorded rise of Kurd-
ish nationalism, when an insurrection
was led under Sheikh Ubeydullah with
the demand of the creation of a sepa-
rate state for the Kurds in the Ottoman
Empire. It was in 1923, with the ratifi-
cation of the Treaty of Lausanne that
broadly outlined the borders of mod-
ern Turkey, that Kurdistan became
divided into four pieces in the newly
created states of Iran, Iraq, Syria and
Turkey. Many fail to understand that
it was this random carving up of land
that separated Kurdish family trees,
placed the Kurds under various tyr-
annies that would rule over them for
decades and has been the root for the
continued Kurdish struggle today for
nationhood.
Recent clashes between guerrillas of
the Kurdistan Worker’s Party (PKK)
and the Turkish military near the
Kurdish town of Semdini left at least
38 dead and dozens wounded, accord-
ing to official Turkish military sources.
The event made international news
headlines. The fundamentals behind
this conflict involve an armed strug-
gle that was launched in 1984 with the
aim of creating an independent Kurd-
ish state in what is today southeastern
Turkey. The Worker’s Party has always
claimed that they did not initiate the
fight, but that it was a direct response
to the subjugation of Kurds in Turkey,
their attempted assimilation and the
lack of possibility for Kurds to get in-
volved on the diplomatic stage in or-
der to be heard. For example, Kurdish
towns and villages had been renamed
to erase their Kurdish identity, the
Kurdish language had been forbid-
den to be spoken in public, Kurdish
movements (be they political, cultural
or economic) had been banned and
Kurdish media outlets had not been al-
lowed to operate. Until as recently as
1991 the Kurds were not recognized by
the Turkish government as a distinct
ethnic people, but were rather referred
to as “mountain Turks”, for they usually
live in the higher plateaus. The conflict
turned into a human crisis in the early
1990s when between 3,500 and 4,000
Kurdish villages were destroyed by the
Turkish military (often being burned to
the ground) and around three million
Kurds were displaced to geographical
entities in western Turkey with the
attempt of cutting off supplies to the
Kurdish rebels.
After the clash between the two
sides a couple of weeks ago, the Turk-
ish president and prime minister, both
from the ruling AK Party, promised
to step up the military effort in bat-
tling the Worker’s Party. Turkey (itself
a NATO member), NATO, the ma-
jority of European countries and the
U.S.A. consider the Worker’s Party to
be a “terrorist organization”. However,
targeting mainly military and strate-
gic targets, the Worker’s Party has in-
sisted on its legislative background as
a counter force to what they see as “the
militarisation of Kurdish areas in Tur-
key”. Ironically, the Worker’s Party has
deployed the same tactics as the rebels
led by George Washington in the
Raz Jabary
American War of Independence, the
same as those deployed by the Kurdis-
tan Democratic Party (KDP) and the
Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK)
in their fight against the brutality of
Saddam Hussein’s regime in Iraq. The
latter three examples of armed strug-
gle are nowadays looked back upon as
struggles of liberation rather than the
use of terror against a superior force.
Unlike the Kurds in Turkey, the
Kurds in Iraq have their own interna-
tionally recognized semi-independent
state with its own regional government
(the Kurdistan Regional Government
or KRG), presidency, constitution, se-
curity forces, flag and national anthem.
Kurds are fighting for sovereignty over the kurdish-inhabited area.
Holding a substantial number of seats
in the Iraqi Parliament and with close
ties with the West, the Kurds in Iraq
are closer to Kurdish nationhood than
the Kurds in Turkey. The greater suc-
cesses achieved by the Kurds in Iraq,
in their realization of political aims,
in comparison to the Kurds in Turkey
can be explained by the fact that the
former were exposed to the subjuga-
tion of their political ideals, whereas
the latter were furthermore disposed
of their Kurdish identity. The use of
their language and cultural traditions
that consequently led to a lower feel-
ing of distinct ethnic nationalism.
However, factors like the strategic al-
liance between the West (particularly
the U.S.A.) and Turkey in comparison
to the formerly futile relationship be-
tween Iraq and the West, and the use of
Saddam Hussein’s weapons of mass de-
struction, which were deployed against
the Kurds in the late 1980s, also served
to increase nationalist consciousness
among the Kurds in Iraq.
Although Kurdish Independence
movements in Iran have similarly been
oppressed as in Turkey, Iraq and Syria,
the Kurds in Iran have experienced
lesser degrees of cultural cultivation.
Likely because of their same Aryan
background and their Indo-European
linguistic heritage with their Persian
neighbours. The Kurds in Iran were
even capable of establishing a short-
livedindependentKurdishstatein1946
with the help of the Soviet Union. Oth-
er modern short-lived Kurdish states/
kingdoms have been the Kingdom of
Kurdistan and the Republic of Ararat.
Although these states were never of-
ficially recognized by the international
community, they clearly indicate the
will of the Kurdish people to govern
themselves in order to prevent na-
tional suffrage by external rulers. The
Kurdish question in the Middle East,
seemingly more complicated than the
well-known plight of the Palestinians,
remains to this day to be a disputed
issue which has haunted the lives of
many ethnic Kurds. This has resulted
in the expulsion of many of them to the
West, particularly Western-Europe,
where their inalienable rights, their
basic four freedoms of expression, as-
sembly, association and the media are
respected and where they continue to
constitute a major lobbying force in fa-
vour of granting the Kurds self-govern-
ment in their countries of origin.
Turkish military defending their territory.

