It was about this point here that
things started to kick off. Some of the
people who had easy credit in the past
started having trouble paying back
loans and the banks start coming down
on them. Think back and you might
remember that it was about now that
the TV became littered with adverts
for debt consolidation (if you think
even harder you’ll recall that the banks
started charging extortionate amounts
for overdue letters around about this
time, so once you got into debt, they
made sure to screw you extra hard).
The American housing market started
to struggle but the UK housing market
kept growing like “the blob” on crack.
Steel started getting expensive, oil
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 17 October 2008
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa
Confused about the credit crunch?
Nowadays everything seems to relate
to the credit crunch. Can’t get a job?
Credit crunch. Food costs too much?
Credit crunch. Your dealer went bust?
Credit Crunch. Your girlfriend just
left your broke ass? Credit Crunch.
It’s raining outside? Credit Crunch.
Everyone blames the credit crunch
for just about anything, but not every-
one seems to understand exactly what
they’re talking about. Credit Crunch
is just a media buzz-phrase that de-
scribes part of the economic situation
we’re in. We use the phrase because
it’s easy to understand (and it rolls off
the tongue nicely) but if we’re actually
going to understand how the crisis be-
gan, we need to look deeper into the
whole thing and consider the events
that started this whole crapshoot. Now
believe it or not, this current crisis
has been looming for decades, possi-
bly even centuries (seriously) but this
particular timeline is only going to the
90’s, because that’s less boring.
Want to know what the credit crunch is about, but can’t find a banker to explain it to you in plain English?
Luke Dhanoa
Business Editor The 90’s and the subprime
smorgasboard.
For financial folks the 90’s got off to a
rocky start. 1990 was a recession year
(that means that the value of the econ-
omy shrank for more than six months)
and interest rates (the percentage you
have to pay back on loans) were high.
But eventually things got better, hell
- things got better than better, things
got great: the markets grew (in the US
and UK) like nothing anyone had ever
seen, there were new financial tools for
trading, interest rates were low, prop-
erty prices were on the increase, things
were going alright. By the time New
Labour had settled in the economy was
in good shape, so everyone did what
everyone always does when times are
sweet – they got careless. So careless
that they started handing out subprime
loans to people without thinking about
the consequences. What’s subprime
you ask? Give that secondary article a
read. and come back.
S
ubprimes are actually fairly
complicated, y’know pro-
vided you go by the wiki.
But for the sake of clarity the
subprimes in this case are
just loans that went out to non prime
candiates. Hence the “sub” “prime” bit.
While this isn’t technically super ac-
curate, it’s a good starting place and
I’m sticking to it. And in case you’re
wondering why loans were given out to
people who weren’t prime candidates,
I’m just about to explain it.
Let’s say you’re a ‘90’s mortgage lend-
er and people come to you asking for
loans to buy houses. Your first instinct
would be to make sure that people can
pay back the loans you give out, right?
That’s just common sense, right?
Wrong.
People are coming to you to buy
houses. Once you lend them the money
for a mortgage they buy the house (be-
coming the owner) and then pay you
back the money in small instalments.
For the convenience of being able to
borrow cash off you, they have to pay
back more than they borrowed (inter-
est). If they manage to pay you back
on time, everything is fine: You make
a profit, the person gets a house. But
if the person can’t pay back their loan,
things get interesting; you (the bank)
can take their house as payment for
the loan (repossession) and then sell it
off to whoever wants it. If you can sell
the house off for more than the person
owes, then you make a profit. Since it’s
the late 90’s and house prices are rising
like mad, you stand a chance of mak-
ing a profit on repossessed houses. For
you, this is the best thing since sliced
bread because you can lend money to
people who can’t pay you back and still
make a profit. Since your objective is to
make a profit, you give mortgages out
to people who cant pay back, for cheap.
The 90’s rock don’t they?
Ash. Another example of 90’s
rocking.
But wait there’s more! Let’s say that
you’re a credit card company: You give
people loans to spend on whatever
they want. When you consider giving
someone a loan you put them into one
of three groups:
A) People who can definitely pay you
back,
B) People who can maybe pay you
back,
C) People who can’t pay you back.
Obviously, you always lend to Group
A, and never lend to Group C. But
what about the “maybes” in Group B?
Some can pay you back, some can’t,
but you have no way of knowing who
can and who cant. So you hire a stat-
istician and tell him to work out how
many “maybes” you can give loans to,
and still make a profit. He works out
that you can give loans to most of the
“maybes” and even though lots of them
will end up bankrupt, enough will pay
you back to come out ahead (assuming
the wider economy stays the way it is).
So you (the 90’s banker) lend money
to people who you know will probably
have financial difficulty later, because
you can still make a profit. God bless
the 90’s.
What you’ve just read is a massive
oversimplification of what happened.
Hell, I’m pretty sure that a bunch of
people are going to try and come kill
me for missing out on so many de-
tails and oversimplifying things. It’s
also possible that you might think that
something scandalous happened here,
but on balance, lax lending in the UK
helped lots of people live better lives.
Cheap credit got millions on the prop-
erty ladder and got countless others
through education. It really was a good
thing at the time. Honest.
Remember these boys? Remember Take That? Remember Nirvana?
Well if you do that means you should probably remember the 90’s
2003 and the invisible WMD’s
It’s time to kick ass and chew
gum. And I’m all out of gum.
Let’s skip forward past 9/11 and into
2003. Around about then we’d recov-
ered from the 2001 CDO collapse and
the big thing we’re all thinking about is
the Iraq War. Some people were con-
cerned that global population growth
was increasing the price of food, other
people are pointing out that the emerg-
ing economies’ thirst for resources
could be a problem, but they are ulti-
mately ignored because there was a war
on and war’s more fun to talk about. It
was here that the cost of living started
to rise but we didn’t notice it. Oil cost
between $20 and $40 a barrel.
2004 to 2006
prices skyrocketed, food got pricier.
This made things even harder for the
people who were just about keeping up
with their loans.
The mortgage and credit lenders sud-
denlyhadanewproblem:thechangesin
the economy meant that they couldn’t
keep making a profit with their old
business model. Because house prices
were falling, they couldn’t make prof-
its on dud mortgages like they used to.
So they tightened up lending practices
and they sold off subprime debt to in-
vestment banks, pension funds, hedge
funds, and whoever else was buying,
knowing it was worthless.
How do you sell debt? Well that’s
easy. Let’s say you owe me a fiver and
you’re going to pay me back in a week.
I then tell a bank that if they give me
four pounds now, I’ll give them the
fiver that you owe me in a week. That
way, I’ve sold the debt.
2007
One fine day in 2007 the investors
woke up and found out that the “as-
sets” (something that makes money for
you) they’d bought off the mortgage
lenders were worthless. Totally worth-
less. In January, HSBC fired its top
US chiefs while the sub-prime debts
mushroomed. None of us noticed.
In May, UBS had to close its high-
profile hedge fund, Dillon Reed Capi-
tal Management and some of us real-
ised what was going down. In July, Ben
Bernanke (Chairman of the Board of
Governors of the United States Federal
Reserve) said that the sub-prime crisis
could cost $100 billion, and promised
to tackle abusive lending. He failed. All
of a sudden people were too scared to
invest. The big banks started to inject
capital (money and assets) into hedge
funds to keep them going, but it was no
good. The credit had crunched.
In September people who banked
with Northern Rock rushed to take
their money out (remember that?). The
investment banks were making huge
losses and bad mojo spread through
the economy like crabs through a
brothel.
In November, Mervyn King, gov-
ernor of the Bank of England warned
that growth in the UK economy would
slow down and inflation would rise. He
wasn’t bullshitting.
2008
In January, Bear Stearns chief James
Cayne steped down as the bank re-
vealed huge losses and the stock mar-
kets tumbled. In March, Bear Stearns
got bought out by JP Morgan (with
some help from the NY Federal Re-
serve) for next to nothing. People start
to panic.
Banker bosses started to get fired all
over the shop and heads started roll-
ing left right and centre. In May the
market started looking like a massacre,
but none of us noticed because we had
exams. In August, UK repossessions
rose by 40 per cent because people jsut
couldn’t pay back their mortgages.
In September all hell broke loose and
Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy.
The US Government rescued Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac while we all get
ready for term. Then, as though they
knew it was coming all along every-
one started blaming everything on the
“credit crunch”.
So next time someone blames expen-
sive food on the crunch, tell ‘em to shut
up. Food is expensive because there’s
too many people eating worldwide and
we’re in a supply-led recession.
What are subprime mortgages and why were they given out to people?
Starving Kids be eating your food

