FRIDAY 06 DEC
16
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rory Fenton
Usman S.
Comment Writer
Comment Writer
Debate: Should gender
segregated seating be
allowed in universities?
YES NO
Y
es, student societies should be
allowed to have events where
men and women who wish to be
seated separately have the option
of that accommodation. When
it comes to an individual’s beliefs, views and
choices (which, by the way, are at the very heart
of human rights and not merely a sidenote),
the ethical standpoint must be to respect that
individual’s autonomy if it is within our capacity
to do so. There needs to be watertight reasoning
for the beliefs in the column opposite to come
before the beliefs of the audience of an event
and their student society.
Time now for the inappropriate and, frankly,
disrespectful comparisons between separate
seating arrangements and Apartheid, US pre-
civil rights, and even Nazi Germany (honestly,
I’ve seen this last analogy with my own eyes).
In this shadow, it is unsurprising that the word
‘segregation’ carries a lot of emotional baggage,
but the diﬀerences could not be more signiﬁcant.
Racial supremacism in all its forms is a stain
on humanity, a hatred fuelled by the desire to
dominate the other. What we are talking about
here is a choice made by both males and females,
it is not about discrimination towards one or the
other as it is so often made out to be.
Which brings us to the elephant in the room. The
true problem, and the reason why this altogether
harmless issue receives so much undue
attention, is because of the false conception that
gender segregation by some conservative groups
follows the same model as the supremacism
outlined above. Indeed, my respected opponent
himself has previously written that it “stems
from ideologies that view women as very much
inferior to men”. Whether he still believes this
or not, I don’t know, but it could not be further
from the truth. In conservative religious groups,
maintaining a respectful distance between the
genders is important – as with, for example,
respect for the elderly, or compassion for the
young – in preserving the moral fabric of
society. Why should it be assumed that the
cultural narrative in the column opposite under
the guise of “fair access” is superior? Just as the
right to sit beside one’s male or female friend
is being championed, so must we protect the
rights of those who choose to sit apart.
The Universities UK conclusion on the matter
(as published this November as part of guidance
to student unions regarding external speakers),
that the Equality Act 2010 does not object
to separate seating by gender (a separation
that happens all around us, from changing
rooms to hospitals) in the absence of less
favourable treatment, is a reasoned one. It
develops further and becomes more interesting,
discussing the question mark over the ‘right’
to a third, unsegregated area, in light of
responsibility towards divergent views. It seems
to me, however, that we cannot progress in our
discourse until we ﬁrst accept that forcing men
and women to sit together should they not wish
to do so is an infringement on their autonomy.
We cannot progress until we accept that this is
not about hierarchy or oppression, and – just
perhaps – it might be worth asking both the
females and the males who subscribe to this
position why it is they do so.
To close, I would say that there is room for
further mature and academic discussion
on the subject, but we must be ever wary
of delegitimising beliefs which we may not
understand, of sensationalism creeping into the
discourse, and of views tainted by baseless or
fundamentally misconstrued assumptions.
I
t is astounding how quickly we forget or
wilfully ignore that human rights are there
to protect people – not beliefs. Worryingly,
we increasingly see this confused notion
of rights being applied on UK campuses.
Whether it’s student groups intimidated
for “blasphemy”, as at LSE and Reading, or
religious societies refusing unmarried women
permission to speak, as at Bristol, this trumping
of individual rights by the supposed rights of
“beliefs” is increasingly common.
The recent guidance from Universities UK was
by-and-large what you would expect; how to
handle far-right speakers, what kind of speech
might fall foul of hate-speech laws and what
groups are banned under anti-terror legislation.
But nestled in the report was a bizarre and
backward recommendation; universities should
be willing to enforce sex segregation between
male and female audience members if a speaker
requests it.
The report’s peculiar logic ran as follows:
speakers have the right to free speech but if their
demands for sex segregation are not met they
will refuse to speak. Therefore to not enforce sex
segregation is to deny the speakers’ freedom of
speech. The report is careful only to endorse the
‘nice’ kind of segregation with men and women
split on the left and right hand sides of a lecture
theatre rather than front and back, the logic here
being that men and women are being treated
‘equally separately’, whatever that means.
This logic has echoes of the old racially
segregated Deep South of the United States;
separate but equal. To argue that segregation
is not inherently unequal is to fail to see just
why men and women are being kept apart in
the ﬁrst place; this drive for segregation stems
from ideologies that view women as very much
inferior to men. To allow these ideologies
power in UK universities is to betray hard-won
individual rights and the principle that in public
spaces all must be treated equally. Separate is
never equal.
The Universities UK report treats the ideology
driving the segregation as if it were something
inherent to the speaker that he (and it will
always be he) can’t help, as if requiring him to
speak to a mixed sex room would be like asking
him to levitate. The reality is that ideologies are
chosen and speakers alone are responsible for
them, not their audience.
Many religious student societies will hold their
own events, such as collective worship, at which
students will choose to separate themselves by
sex in accordance with their beliefs. Insofar
as this is voluntary, this is acceptable. What
Universities UK have endorsed, however, is
enforced segregation, with students told where
to sit, according to their sex, or they can leave.
The report then goes on to consider having a
third, mixed sex section of the audience as well
as a male and a female section. Incredibly, this
apparent compromise is then rejected by the
report, which warns that to insist on a third
mixed sex section may still be infringing on
the rights of the speaker to have a segregated
audience. The report goes as far as to say that
non-religious beliefs, such as feminism, should
take second place to “sincerely held” religious
beliefs. That’s right; the mere fact that they are
religious makes some beliefs more important
than others because, of course, Feminist can’t be
sincere in their beliefs.
The Universities UK report focuses on sex
because it’s an issue that has come up before but
there is no reason for its logic to stop there. If a
racist is invited to speak – should he not have
the audience forcibly segregated into whites
and non-whites? What if his beliefs are really
“sincerely held”? Could the EDL insist on all
Muslim students sitting separately? Of course
Universities UK would never support this.
In advocating for enforced sex segregation
they are cowardly capitulating to religious
extremists in a way they surely never would
to political extremists. In bending to these
extremists, universities betray the moderate
majority in religious groups who do not wish
to see segregation or, at least, would not want it
to be forced on others. Men and women should
sit where they wish. Universities have a duty to
protect the rights of their students, they do not
have a duty to protect their beliefs.
“The true problem,
and the reason why this
altogether harmless issue
receives so much undue
attention, is because of
the false conception that
gender segregation by
some conservative groups
follows the same model as
the supremacism outlined
above.
”
“Universities have a
duty to protect the rights of
their students, they do not
have a duty to protect their
beliefs.
”

