imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
StudentAcademic ChoiceAwards
After a successful launch last year, the Student Academic Choice
Awards are back and nominations are open!
The Student Academic Choice Awards – or SACAs – enable students
to celebrate and reward excellence and innovation amongst Imperial’s
academic and professional staff. We aim to build a community in which
academics, staff and students all feel empowered to bring forth new
ideas.
Every student at Imperial will have the chance to recognise the
innovation, skill, engagement and energy of the staff they learn with.
Nominate someone today on the Union website.
imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
imperialcollegeunion.org/give-it-a-go
Give it a Go returns in January
Give It A Go ran for the ﬁrst time at Imperial College Union in October
2013. It encouraged almost 3,000 students to take opportunities and
attend trips or try new activities before committing to joining one of our
300+ Clubs, Societies & Projects. GIAG provided a great way for people
to ﬁnd out about some of the great events our student groups organise.
We asked if you thought you would beneﬁt from a second GIAG and
76% said yes, so it will be back in January 2014! Clubs can sign up to
GIAG for free advertising and promotion of events in booklets, online
and in person on South Kensington campus. These events are open to
non-members and every student can see a calendar of events they can
attend without commitments!
imperialcollegeunion.org/christmas-dinner
With less than 23 days to go until Christmas, it’s time for the Union’s famous
Christmas dinners to return as the best value turkey dinners (or nut roasts for
vegetarians) on campus.
Starting tomorrow and running every Tuesday and Thursday lunchtime and
evening until the end of term, we will be serving up a plate-full of Christmas
dinner with all of the trimmings, including a Christmas cracker!
With turkey or nut roast (sweet pistachios, cashew nuts with mushrooms and
spinach), roast potatoes, pigs in blankets (not with the nut roast!), parsnips,
carrots, sprouts, gravy and cranberry sauce all for only £6.50, the dinners are a
wintery treat not to be missed.
So, join us for Christmas Dinners at the Union in FiveSixEight between 12:00 -
We love Christmas Dinners!
Help us ﬁght against Government proposals that would unfairly penalise
international students and damage the UK’s standing as a global leader in
higher education.
The UK Government is set to release a new immigration bill which would
introduce yet more unfair conditions for international students. These changes
will impact on international students - who make up 75% of all those in the UK
who are subject to visa controls.
We will be lobbying Members of Parliament, including members of the House of
Lords. Union Council, the voice of Imperial College students, unanimously voted
to oppose the bill and to work with the National Union of Students on this issue.
To learn more and show your support, visit our campaign pages online.
Oppose the Immigration Bill
imperialcollegeunion.org/immigration-bill

