18 FRIDAY 06 DEC
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
W
ell, this is it! The moment
you’ve all been waiting
for! With one week left
until the end of the
College term, the Felix
team is happy to present you one ﬁnal issue
before we take a break over the Christmas
holidays!
But never fear, because although we might
not be in print for the next few weeks, we’ll
still be fairly active online, when not scoﬃng
mince pies or drinking some of Tessa’s lovely
gingerbread vodka (it really is nice).
Now you may not celebrate Christmas,
but there’s one gift that we all receive from
our belevolent masters at College, and that
is a novely break far away from campus (well
for most people). Think not of coursework,
revision or exams while you frolick around
in the snow outside (during your 20 minute
revision break) or while you set up yet another
episode of Archer on NetFlix.
As you prepare to come back next term and
face whatever comes next Felix hopes that you
rembember that you’re at least 1/3 through
the year now, so things can only get better!
If you’re lucky enough to see some snow,
send some tweets to @felixImperial and we’ll
be sure to give you some retweet love! Maybe
we’ll even be able to beat the BBC’s insipid
snow coverage (no pun observed).
For those of you who have revision over
the festive period, don’t forget to take a break
every now and then, lest your energy stores
dry up and you involuntarily collapse in
front of a day long special edition of the Paul
O’Grady Show. Trust us, there are far better
things!
Felix hopes you have a wonderful winter
holiday and a fantastic new year :)
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
Student Protests in Ukraine
Christy Kelly
Writer
T
he dramatic events in Ukraine in
recent weeks have again brought
the country into the headlines. The
mainly student protests in Kiev
are about reneged promises over
further integration with the EU.
Before we come to the table with our
personal prejudices and biases over the EU
(and both UKIP and the idiotic liberal reaction
to UKIP suggest we have many) we need to
remember Edward Said’s warning that very
few political principles survive translation,
inserted, as they are, into a new set of power
relations. The ﬁrst directly relevant point here
is that Ukraine is the world’s third largest
exporter of grain. Certainly the EU protects
its farmers (and as a leftist I should like to
point out the cost to third world farmers that
this protectionist policy has) and Ukraine
has much to gain from joining the EU.
However, as the continuing economic crises
in Greece, Spain etc. show, the integration
of a notoriously fragile economy into the EU
may well be tantamount to handing the keys
over to Germany.
EU aside, there is the ever perennial Big
Brother to the East. Putin clearly doesn’t want
Ukraine to integrate more with the EU, and
the oil debacles in 2006 and 2009 show Putin
isn’t scared of punishing sheep that stray
too far from the ﬂock. The criminal actions
in Chechnya are perhaps a more sinister
example. This brings us nicely to internal
politics: President Yanukovych was widely
seen as the ‘Russian’ candidate in the 2004
‘election’, and indeed the base of his support
is in the predominantly ethnically Russian
east. Ukraine is infamous for its East/West
divide, with the country more pro-Soviet as
you head east, and these protests have once
again thrown this factor into relief.
Yanukovych is without doubt a dubious
character, with very serious allegations
of corruption levelled at him, despite the
highfalutin rhetoric. Then there was the
blatant electoral fraud in 2004 which led to
the Orange Revolution. The revolution was
perhaps more of the type we physicists are
used to dealing with as Yanukovych soon
saw himself back in power in 2010, elected
in perhaps the cleanest election in the post-
Soviet bloc to date.
Mind you, Yulia Tymoshenko is not
perhaps as much the fairy-tale candidate
that Guardian readers would like to believe.
Perhaps this is just prejudice, but I am not
sure that becoming one of the richest people
in the country during a period where GDP
shrunk to 40% of its Soviet era economy is
quite justiﬁed by business sense and initiative.
Despite the personal diﬃculties she has no
doubt faced since her arrest in 2001, it was the
incompetence and inﬁghting of the Orange
revolutionaries that brought Yanukovych
back to power. Finally, Tymoshenko is all too
cosy with the wrong sorts of people: note her
meetings with Dick Cheney and Condoleeza
Rice in 2007, or her transformation into
Russia’s preferred candidate in 2010.
One ﬁnal word: democratic uprisings have
a life of their own. Slavoj Žižek once made a
wonderful point about how best to rewrite
Antigone. Forget the ﬁghts between Creon
and Antigone, the chorus should send both
to the prison camps and start life in a new
commune. My call to the people of Ukraine is
analogous; forget the Maﬁoso politicians and
gas baronesses. Unite and protest!
Hey Hun,weI found your email going
thru some profiles. I’m just looking for
fun... think you can handle this?
I came across your email going thru
some profiles. I’m just looking for fun...
think you can handle this?
Check out my pics here, maybe we
should meet up and be friends with
benefits ;) Hope you Like what you see!
http://goo.gl/uvgQdW
Claris Alway
Ed. - Seriously SpamBot Alway, is that
the best you can do? Why do you even
bother? You know I’ll only click this link
if I’m extremely bored never ever click
your suspicious link that clearly leads to
http://GiveMEAVirusForChristmas.Org.
Gov.RandomTLD...
Why don’t you click on this cool link?
Dear Editor,
It’s been days since you last called me!
What’s the matter? Are you too busy
with your friends to have any time for
me?
Why do you take so long to reply to my
calls? You know that I’ll bring you food
and new clothes if you just pick up and
dial! And we can have such a great chat,
we’ve got so many things to catch up
with!
I’ve sent this letter to all of your per-
sonal accounts and sent a letter to your
office all in the hope of hearing from
you!
Love,
M
Ed. - Dear Mother, thank you for your
various emails and voicemail messages.
It seems as though I always just miss
your call whenever you ring. Maybe try
calling on Wednesday, I’ll be at this re-
ally quite room called Metric...
Why don’t you call me?
One term down, two
more to go!

