19
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 06 DEC
ARTS
Kamil McClelland talks to Mendel Kaelen, an Imperial PhD student
whose artwork is on display in the GV Art Gallery in London
Mendel Kaelen received his BSc and
MSc in neurological and behavioural
sciences at the State University of
Gronigen, and is now doing a PhD
at Imperial College. He also works
as a sound artist and experimental
musician and is currently exhibiting
at the GV Art Gallery’s NOISE &
Whispers exhibition.
So Mendel, what are you researching
at the moment in your PhD?
We are looking at the neurological
eﬀects of psychedelic drugs. We do so
at ‘resting state’, meaning that people
in the scanner are allowed to lie there
with their eyes closed, letting their
minds wander freely.
In 2001, researchers found that
certain brain regions are actually
more active at rest. My supervisors
found that psychedelics seem to very
speciﬁcally target these resting state
networks, and my research builds on
this.
Moving on to your art, how would
you describe what you do?
Ever since I started experimenting with
sounds, I became really fascinated by
environmental ones. Field recording
plays a very central position in my
work – although I also work with
objects and instruments.
Furthermore I often don’t use these
ﬁeld recordings in their pure form. I
am more interested in how the sound
feels, rather than what it is. After I
modulate my recordings, you often
don’t recognize the original sound any
more, but you still have this organic
quality to it.
Why do you find natural sounds
so appealing, as opposed to purely
electronic sounds?
I don’t think they’re more interesting.
For instance, I have a deep appreciation
for the work of artists like Carsten
Nicolai, where often there is no natural
context at all. I just tend to constrain
myself at the moment, to give myself
focus.
However, I do ﬁnd it appealing that
they represent, both concretely and
in a more abstract sense, forces of
nature. We are constantly surrounded
by mechanistic sounds, so it is easy
to become estranged from these
natural ones. Maybe I still have a
kind of romantic vision of nature at a
subconscious level in my practice.
What are you trying to do with your
music? Are you trying to capture
a landscape, reveal some hidden
reality, or just create emotion? Do
you think about these things when
you create your music?
Absolutely! That question has much
to do with how I deﬁne art. I see
art as a form of communication – a
language that is irrational, and that
doesn’t bother to be rational. It gives
voice to those forces you feel inside
that are diﬃcult to quantify. When
I create art myself, I see it as giving
people a symbol that that bypasses
the intellect. It’s about giving people a
phenomenologically rich experience.
Do you see your work as academic?
No, not at all; I see it as art, and
art is not academic for me. That
doesn’t mean it cannot be inspired by
scientiﬁc concepts, though. Science
is about objective truth; it provides
explanations of reality no matter what
you may feel about this reality, whilst
art is about subjective reality and what
you experience. Theoretically they
are extremely diﬀerent, but they both
have to do with, in a very abstract
sense, ﬁnding explanations for your
experience of life.
What are your main artistic
influences?
They are a rich blend of science,
literature, music and visual art. I keep
being inspired by new musicians;
it’s a never-ending process. Works
by Francisco Lopez have greatly
aﬀected my artistic development. He
works with ﬁeld recordings in very
immersive, abstract works. There is
one of his albums called La Selva that
really opened my ears to new ways of
listening.
Talk to me about your piece on
display at the GV art gallery.
Altered Space of Consciousness started
very intuitively back in Groningen,
where I was studying neuroscience. I
often found myself driving home in the
middle of the night. At night, the city
centre turns into this carnage of human
instincts; people are very disinhibited.
I would always try to avoid it; it had a
kind of intrusiveness to it. However, I
eventually found it fascinating to listen
and overcome my resistance to that
soundscape. So then every time I drove
back home, I would bring my sound
recording equipment with me.
Afterwards, I thought about how
I could recreate that experience for
listeners. I came up with the idea of
having a beer can hanging upside
down, lonely in a dark space, and
playing these sounds really subtly.
There was intrusiveness in the original
soundscape, and I wanted to invert
that by playing the sounds very softly,
as an invitation for closer inspection.
Planet Earth ﬂoats as a peaceful pearl
in black space, but a close look reveals
the acts of joy and genocide being
played out simultaneously. So only
with your ears next to the can do you
hear the songs that celebrate booze and
football and those that glorify rape and
prostitution, all performed together.
What is psychologically interesting
is that as an outsider, you won’t hear
the diﬀerence. The sounds are locked
up, and resonance and overtones are
created by it being played inside this
enclosed metal space.
Do you feel a visual element to your
sound art is quite important then?
Yes, although this is not always the
case, as some is best experienced in
complete darkness. Then, the visual
element is your mind’s eye. It is
however often the visual part of a work
that triggers your ﬁrst associations,
when it’s presented to you. So I
think it is important that the visual
art resonates with what you want to
communicate with your sound.
In your works are you actively trying
to convey the emotion the field
recording originally gave you?
I always make something from my own
emotions, but the output is always a
surprise. You also never have control
over what the audience feels. I got
rid of that idea very soon after my
ﬁrst release in 2010, when it became
clear that everyone had their own
unique thoughts about the music. In
the beginning, a part of me didn’t like
that because I wanted to communicate
something very speciﬁc. But now I
realise that this is something beautiful;
you create a piece, but what people do
with it is up to them.
What do you see for the future of
your art?
Right now I’m focusing more on
live performances and installations.
Where everything is going, I don’t
know. But I do want to keep creating
and developing the character of my
pieces. My art will always express how
I develop as a person.
So how was the exhibition?
In 1913, the futurist Luigi Russolo constructed a manifesto that was to
transform how we thought of sound. In L’arte dei Rumori (The Art of Noises),
he redeﬁned music for an era of machinery, electricity and dynamism.
Western musical convention was, for him, far too limiting when an inﬁnite
palette of noises lay out there.
Today, sound art aims to realise this dream, and one hundred years
on, NOISE &Whispers at the GV Art Gallery displays works that, by any
traditional deﬁnitions, would not be considered music. Here, art is fused
with modern technology, generating sound works that manipulate Earth’s
innate rhythms into pieces that enhance our experience of our environment.
From the moment you put on the headphones, you see just how radical
Russolo was. Any ideas of conventional melody are abandoned, replaced
by an expanse of microtonal minutiae created through ﬁeld recordings and
digital modulation. Is this music? Well, it depends on how you deﬁne it –
but most of those I have asked don’t think so, regarding it as unpleasant
background noise that has no place in the ‘elite’ art of music.
Therefore, one must approach NOISE &Whispers with an open mind.
Despite representing one hundred years of musical development, some
works may still seem unconventional or hard to understand. Preconceptions
will be challenged; that is for certain. However, in places, pieces may seem
oddly familiar, preserving the repetitive, electronic texture of much of
today’s popular music whilst abandoning its ‘pleasant’ chord progressions.
Science and art, so often at odds, ﬁnd harmony in this exhibition.
Through science, the artists are able to unearth the inherent sounds of our
atmosphere, revealing melody that we never knew existed. Raxil4’s Solaris
Beta even manages to extract the sound of the sun through conversion of
pressure oscillations on the solar surface into an audible format, creating an
acoustic domain like nothing ever heard before.
Without any formal musical background, I found the lack of visual art
in the exhibition disconcerting at ﬁrst. It appeared occasionally, maybe a
photograph or ﬁlm clip, but existed more as an accompaniment to audio
recordings, as opposed to being the focus of sensation. It seems sound art is
a genre often best experienced with closed eyes, introspective, allowing you
to construct your own imagined world.
Sound art never achieved any great commercial success. It is often
described as monotonous, uninteresting and overly academic, and I can
understand where this criticism is coming from. Listening to a whole gallery
of such intense music can become strenuous and tiring. I feel it takes a
certain state of mind to fully appreciate these works, a state of utter mental
relaxation, and only then are you able to succumb to this deep sonic massage.
But NOISE & Whispers is a must-see. It may seem experimental, and
not conventionally beautiful, but it cannot be missed. The exhibition has
changed my perception of the environment, honing my ears to pick up on
atmospheric noises usually ignored and appreciate them for their unique
timbral characteristics. Moreover, its ability to combine science and art
so seamlessly is exceptional, applying scientiﬁc objectivity to art where
previously only the subjective experience of truth and emotion existed.
What: NOISE & Whispers
Where: GV Art Gallery, W1
When: 8th Nov - 14th Dec 2013
Price: FREE
COURTESY SUSAN ALEXJANDER AND GV ART
Scientific sound art at GV Art

