22 FRIDAY 06 DEC
ARTS Editor: Arianna Sorba
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The
Government
Inspector
D
ramSoc’s winter play this year is Nikolai
Gogol’s satirical comedy The Government
Inspector. Banned by the tsarist government
of Imperial Russia on its ﬁrst publication,
the play makes a mockery of the stupidity,
greed and corruption of the oﬃcials of a small provincial
town.
The director, Simon Parker, has done a fantastic job
of staging the play in an engaging, thought provoking
and somewhat surreal way. There are many points in
the play which will intentionally bemuse the audience,
one of which is the rather original freeze-frame used to
conclude the show. Many of his personal touches can
be witnessed throughout, including the niche music
that accompanies the play, and a strange old man with a
long beard who sits and watches as Khlestakov (Nicolas
Pimparé) proposes to Marya (Svetlana Guggenbuehl).
Amongst the newcomers to DramSoc are Helen Root
as Anna Andreyevna and Svetlana Guggenbuehl as
Marya Antonovna. Helen gives a pristine performance
as a morally grounded older woman who competes with
her daughter, Marya, for the aﬀections of Khlestakov.
Svetlana is a pleasure to watch as a ﬂaunting, beautiful
and eloquent young woman who is continually shunned
by her mother, but whose persistence pays oﬀ as she
wins over Khlestakov’s heart.
Khlestakov (the ‘inspector’) is played by Nicolas
Pimparé, whose outrageous ﬂamboyance and
eccentricity suits the role perfectly. So good is his
performance that his speech, during which Khlestakov
utters outlandish lies about his supposed life as a high
ranking oﬃcial, will trick the audience into thinking
they are in the Apollo theatre.
Tiberiu Chis (Tib) plays the highly stressed Mayor,
whoseeﬀortstocontrolthechaosthatensuesthroughout
the town are hilariously futile. Tib’s character perfectly
blends an air of authority with that of hopelessness
and complete impatience, and he manages to keep the
character funny and relatable whilst hinting from time
to time at a darker, more tyrannical man.
The townspeople provide laughter throughout in
each of their own dysfunctional ways. Dobchinsky
and Bobchinsky (Jack Williams and Joseph Hosier),
ultimately the cause behind the chaos which engulfs the
town, pile laugh upon laugh as their complete naivety
and stupidity are embodied in ridiculous one-liners
and episodes of physical humour; the sheer nonsense
oﬀered by their characters is something all lovers of
silly jokes will appreciate. Zemlianika (Max Falkenberg
McGillivray), the Judge (Joseph Dudley), Luka (Paul
Cosma) and the Postmaster (Prashant Mahendran) as
the corrupt oﬃcials complement each other’s characters
very well, and all try to impress Khlestakov in their
uniquely fruitless fashion.
The costumes are spectacular and the props and set
also convey the mood and setting of Imperial Russia
very well. The crew, especially the costume designers,
have performed a stellar job in that department. The
show is a very entertaining one, and I urge you to go
and watch it on the two remaining nights!
The Government Inspector is being performed this Friday
6th and Saturday 7th December in the Union Concert
Hall in Beit Quad. Tickets can be bought from the union
website and are £5 for students, £7 for non-students, £1
extra on the door.
Jack Williams
DramSoc Social Secretary
Who is Paul Smith?
T
he title of the Design
Museum’s latest exhibition,
‘Hello My Name Is Paul
Smith’, feels slightly
redundant. Over the last
40-odd years, Paul Smith has become
one of the most recognisable men in
the British fashion industry, heading
a brand of global renown, and
producing a vast range of products, all
emblazoned with his own signature.
Surely he is a man who needs no
introduction?
But the museum promises to give
more than a cursory overview of
the man and his designs. Instead it
proclaims to ‘oﬀer a unique insight
into the magniﬁcent mind of Paul
Smith’. So does the exhibition manage
to get under his skin, stripping away
the tailoring and stripe patterns,
giving us a peek at what makes the
man tick?
Unfortunately not. Instead, all they
manage to oﬀer is a shallow glimpse
at one of the most famous menswear
brands on the planet, in a show that
seems to add up to little more than
shameless advertising.
Beginning with a mock-up of his ﬁrst
‘shop’ – in reality a boxy, windowless
room in Nottingham – the exhibition
moves through various stages in both
his life and his design process, until
we end at the ﬁnished product. Born
just outside Nottingham in 1946,
Smith showed more interest in cycling
than fashion for most of his youth,
but underwent a change of heart as
a teenager working in his father’s
clothing warehouse. After taking
classes in tailoring, and a brief stint in
Savile Row, he set up his ﬁrst shop in
What: Hello My Name is Paul Smith
Where: Design Museum, SE1
When: 15th Nov - 9th Mar 2014
Price: £7.50 students, £11.85 adults
(including donation)
1970, and showed his ﬁrst collection
in Paris in 1976. The exhibition
features a recreation of this ﬁrst ‘show’,
in which Smith laid out his collection
of around 10 pieces on the bed of his
friend’s apartment, highlighting how
hard Smith worked to set up his ﬁrst
shop in London in 1979.
In a post-internet world, where
designers are often plucked out by
benefactors such as Lulu Kennedy
before they have even ﬁnished their
graduate collections, it’s interesting
to see how designers used to get
themselves noticed. In Smith’s case,
it was his knack for combining
traditional tailoring with a uniquely
witty edge; boring jackets reveal ﬂorid
linings, traditional shirts are spiced up
with garish prints, in what I suppose
would now be called – somewhat
nauseatingly – ‘eccentrically British’.
This, along with his charming
personality helped spread his brand
across the world, most notably in
Japan, which now has over ten times
the number of Paul Smith stores than
the UK. Now approaching 70, and still
active, it is diﬃcult to see Smith as
anything other than the grandmaster
of British menswear.
However, while ‘Paul Smith’ itself is
a personal brand, the exhibition does
a very poor job in getting across any of
Smith’s personality, instead presenting
him as a sort of sterile amalgamation
of inﬂuences, a faceless face behind
the label, a Betty Crocker of the
fashion world.
We explore a recreation of his oﬃce,
which resembles a kooky antique store
- coﬀee table books ﬁght for space with
toy robots and cycling paraphernalia,
while papers ﬁll up every available inch
of desk space. While I am sure that this
idiosyncratic range of interests has
greatly contributed to Smith’s success,
this magpie approach to design and
retail has been co-opted by high
street giants like Urban Outﬁtters or
Topshop, making what might have
once been a unique attribute seem like
a cynical marketing ploy.
Similarly, the recreation of his HQ,
where he and his team cook up their
collections, seems like little more
than an intern’s idea of what a ‘trendy,
London design ﬁrm’ would look like:
Apple computers gleam on white
countertops cluttered with fabric
samples and copies of Fantastic Man,
while various fashion sketches are
pinned up around the room. It is as
far from a ‘unique insight’ into Smith’s
design process as possible.
The only interesting tid-bit of
information we are given is that they
windstringaroundcardboardtocreate
their iconic stripe patterns. But other
than that, there is little to make Smith
stand out from his contemporaries.
While other designers, such as the late
Alexander McQueen or the doyenne
of Italian fashion Miuccia Prada,
manage to make their collections
seem like an exciting continuation of
their personal vision, Smith seems
somewhat removed from the entire
process – a ﬁgurehead of a brand that
has its own separate identity.
The exhibition culminates with a
corridor of Paul Smith designs from
a number of previous collections. It
is worth pointing out that this is the
ﬁrst time we are exposed to any actual
clothes from his collections, and the
result is somewhat lacking.
A victim of his own success, Smith’s
clothing, when presented as a solid
block, appears quite dull and banal.
His formula of British tailoring with
a twist has served him well, but after
nearly 40 years in the industry, it is
beginning to wear somewhat thin;
there are only so many times you can
churn out a ﬂoral shirt, no matter how
well designed. What was once exciting
and new now seems almost staid.
It is therefore something of a pity
that Smith has come to represent the
pinnacle of British menswear, when
there are so many young, unique
designers ready to take up his mantle.
New talents such as Craig Green
and Nasir Mazhar are producing
extremely daring garments, adding a
shot of danger and intrigue into the
near-catatonic world of menswear,
but are obscured by the long shadow
cast by those like Paul Smith.
All in all, it would be churlish not
to recognise the service that Paul
Smith has done for the British fashion
industry; by spreading his clothing
all over the world, Smith has ensured
that UK menswear continues to be
relevant in today’s globalised fashion
world. However, I felt let down by
the exhibition. Rather than giving me
an ‘insight’ into Paul Smith’s mind,
it left me frustrated that none of my
questions about the man and his
working practice has been answered.
The exhibition feels less like an
exploration into one of the most
famous men in fashion, and more like
a cheap exercise in self-promotion –
something of which Paul Smith has
little need.
ANTHONY CROLLA
Fred Fyles
Writer
“The recreation
of his HQ seems
like little more
than an internʼs
idea of what a
ʻtrendy, London
design ﬁrmʼ
would look like”

