30 FRIDAY 06 DEC
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
Riaz & Stuart’s Albums Of The Year
Editorialbigwigsrevealtheirmostfavouredreleasesof the last12 months
1. Mika Vainio & Joachim Nordwall
Monstrance
While both have distinguished themselves with impressive
solo releases this year, Vainio & Nordwallʼs collaboration
manages to capture the best elements of both of their work.
Despite the small selection of instruments on the album,
variety abounds. From rhythmic bassy rumbles (courtesy of
Vainio) to ambient synths via metallic scrapings and scream-
ing guitars, Monstrance is one of the most richly diverse and
satisfyingly eerie musical journeys of recent times.
2. Fire!
Without Noticing
Swedish noisy jazz trio Fire! followed Februaryʼs orchestral
album Exit, with Without Noticing, an album that really em-
ulates the live experience. As well as being bookended by
noisy sketches, ʻAt Least On Your Doorʼ starts with a classic
noisy sax jam before dropping into an irresistably catchy
bassline augmented by Mats Gustafssonʼs always enthral-
ling saxophone heroics. That pretty much sums up what is
an insanely catchy yet agressively hard hitting album.
3. Abul Mogard
Drifted Heaven
Abul Mogard, a retired Serbian factory worker, maintains
the cathartic, hauntingly beautiful industrial tones of previ-
ous works, like a modernist Steve Roach. Where it has
changed, is that it sounds more like many of his VCO coun-
terparts, with a more classically electronic sound in places
and more open suggestions of melody. The result is a more
instantly rewarding listen, being dipped for the length of the
album in swathes of Mogardʼs ethereal electronics.
4. Nicholas Bullen
Component Fixations
For the most part, Iʼve tried to avoid albums Iʼve covered
before, but I really felt I did the Napalm Death founder
a slight disservice last time round. Like Japanese noise artist
Aube, Bullen uses a single sound source - his garden, yet the
results approavh more closely the abstract electronic experi-
mentation of Eleh, where common garden sounds like running
water combine with more processed counterparts to make a
complex, serrated, intimidatingly claustrophobic experience.
5. Slow Walkers
Slow Walkers
Slow Walkers is a collaboration between Lawrence
English and Grouper. The result contains the brilliance
youʼd expect from two cornerstrones of the ambient genre.
Grouperʼs warmly dissonant pop-ambient and Englishʼs
evocatice drone based soundscapes combine to perfect
effect in a wonderfully ﬂowing homogenous soundscape of
the most sumptuous ambient you will hear this year.
1. The World is a Beautiful Place and I am no
Longer Afraid to Die
Whenever, If Ever
I am obsessed with this album. The range of moods and styles is
captivating, and how it ﬁts together so coherently is breathtak-
ing. Mixing midwest emo with post-rock, indie pop and math
rock, this album is everything Iʼve ever wanted (in an album).
Itʼs exciting, it develops with every listen, itʼs bursting with emo-
tion, it namechecks Rival Schools, I mean, what else do you
want?
2. Old Gray
An Autobiography
I imagine most of you are looking for an album chock full of
twinkly guitar, frenzied crescendos and intense screaming.
This is what youʼre looking for. An Autobiography is a fan-
tastic blend of screamo, midwest emo and post-rock. From
the opening track through to the last it is just fantastic. Itʼs
heavy, but itʼs also really beautiful. It will blow your socks
off and bring you to the point of tears simultaneously, and
that is the dream, so, yeah.
3. The National – Trouble Will Find Me ll
Trouble Will Find Me
The National have long been one of my favourite bands,
and this might be their best yet. ʻI Need My Girlʼ is deﬁnite-
ly my song of the year. A lilting guitar line backs a beauti-
ful vocal performance… and it just blows me away every
time. To be honest, itʼs all great. The tightest rhythm section
in indie rock continue to impress good, the guitar lines are
brilliant and Matt Berningerʼs baritone is at its silky best.
Top stuff.
4. Pity Sex
Feast Of Love
This shoegaze / emo hybrid has had me hooked since my
ﬁrst listen. Hiding amongst layers fuzz are some really
catchy hooks, a driving rhythm section and some top notch
alt rock tracks. There are tracks about masturbation and
loneliness, but for the most part itʼs about bad casual sex.
Happily, itʼs much closer to self-deprecating humour than de-
pressing self-analysis. If you want to immerse yourself in fuzz
and unhappiness, then this is the best 2013 had to offer!
5. Iceage
Youʼre Nothing
Iceage play visceral post-punk. Full of snarling vocals and
dissonant instrumentation, their sounds owes more to The Fall
and Wire than the more obvious touchstones of Joy Division
or Gang of Four. From the accelerating madness of ʻCoali-
tionʼ to the pure manic brilliance of ʻWounded Heartsʼ, this is
one to get you on the danceﬂoor, and then embarrass yourself
badly by throwing yourself around without any semblance of
style. This is a spectacular listen, if a slightly exhausting one.

