32 FRIDAY 06 DEC
FILM Editor: John Park
ﬁlm.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Here’s looking at you,
Sandra Bullock and Melissa McCarthy
Hot off her Oscar-nominated comedic turn (comedy not something that is gen-
erally recognised by awards ceremonies – she was really that good) in Brides-
maids, McCarthy continued her successful streak in the film industry with her
box-office number one financial hit, Identity Thief. The critics hated it, with
one rather unpleasant review comparing McCarthy to a hippo, but the audi-
ence clearly loved it, grossing well over its budget internationally, with a sequel
already in the works.
Teaming up with Bullock, the pair starred in The Heat, a female-driven buddy
cop comedy that went above and beyond everyone’s expectations by actually
being very, very funny. With Paul Feig, the director of Bridesmaids, McCarthy
scored yet another solid comedy role, this time more foul-mouthed than ever,
with Bullock enjoying quite a considerable paycheck ($10 million) compared to
her more modestly paid co-star ($2.5 million).
Oscar buzz is also building for Bullock, who genuinely looked to be giving it
her all in Alfonso Cuaron’s terrifyingly intense space drama, Gravity. The critics
loved it, and the world can’t seem to be getting enough of it. Already $600 mil-
lion dollars in the bag, the sales keep coming in strong, and is a hotly anticipated
Oscar contender this year.
Itʼs been a good year for...
Flying high...defying gravity
The 6th installment in the Fast & Furi-
ous franchise, the aptly named Fast &
Furious 6 showed no signs of slowing
down by pulling out all the stops. The
Rock? Check. Vin Diesel? Check. Fan-
cy cars? Of course. Women? Oh yes.
A tank? Why not. The sillier it gets
(who can forget THAT airport run-
way scene?), the more money it makes
it seems, as it went on to become the
biggest money-maker of the series,
even taking inflation into account.
Tom Hanks
His films both opened and closed the
London Film Festival (Captain Phil-
lips opening, Saving Mr Banks clos-
ing), and they have both been incred-
ibly well received. There’s even talk of
him scoring a double nomination (for
both best leading and supporting ac-
tor), an achievement only a handful of
thespians have managed in the past.
Superheroes who aren’t Wolverine
Marvel’s world cinema domination of course continued in 2013, with both their
films benefiting greatly from the phenomenal success of last year’s Avengers
Assemble.
Geared up as a direct sequel to the events of Avengers Assemble, Iron Man 3
is currently the highest grossing film of 2013, and became a billionaire globally.
Thor: The Dark World wasn’t quite as huge, and although it won’t come close to
hitting that billion point, it’s already reached half of that, which is still an impres-
sive feat, done within a month of its release.
DC has also been making a bold comeback thanks to Christopher Nolan’s
input into the Batman saga, and they rightly paraded his name around every
advert there was for their Superman reboot, titled Man of Steel, with relative
newcomer Henry Cavill taking over the coveted role. It made enough money to
warrant a sequel, although both fans and critics alike were somewhat let down
by Superman’s complete disregard for the concept of collateral damage in his
final action sequence.
Luke Evans
The Welsh actor has been busy of late,
starring in Fast & Furious 6, scoring a
significantly sized role in the remain-
ing Hobbit films, whilst also landing
iconic roles of both Dracula and The
Crow in their newly rebooted films
(Dracula Untold and The Crow re-
spectively). How they will turn out no
one knows for sure, but by this time
next year he could be the big name on
Hollywood campus.
James Wan and low-budget hororr films
Spending very little (relatively) then recuperating a final total that is consider-
ably more is a tactic that has served director Wan well this year, with both of his
horror hits, The Conjuring and Insidious Chapter 2, which were made with
small budgets ($20 million, $5 million respectively), earned a cool combined
total of $460 million+ internationally.
Similar success was enjoyed by The Purge (budget: $3 million, earnings: al-
most $90 million), a simple, yet interesting and thought-provoking idea, well
executed and incredibly well advertised during a box office period where not
many great new releases were out to entertain and grab the audience’s attention.

