33
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 06 DEC
FILM
kid: a 2013 round-up
Jennifer Lawrence
For starters, she won an Oscar earlier
this year, and it’s obvious she’s becom-
ing one of the most talked about and
loved young actresses around. She’s
the cool, new, hip young woman to
like, which explains why so many re-
turned for the sequel of The Hunger
Games. Catching Fire is doing great
business, with everyone fully invest-
ed in the revolution that is brewing
against the Capitol, who quite frankly
deserve everything coming their way.
Independent films
Once again, films grabbing the im-
portant awards buzz are the more
modestly financed (but by no means
less advertised) films that are win-
ning glowing reviews from critics and
cinema-goers alike. Steve McQueen
has already bagged numerous awards
with his latest slavery drama 12 Years
a Slave, which is looking to be the one
to beat come the Oscar season, Mat-
thew McConaughey and Jared Leto
should be winning a handful of awards
for their work in the funny and touch-
ing Dallas Buyers Club, Woody Al-
len is on career-peak form with Blue
Jasmine featuring Cate Blanchett’s
bravura performance, whereas once
again the Coen brothers work their
magic with Inside Llewyn Davis.
Leonardo DiCaprio
There is always some sort of an Oscar
buzz surrounding DiCaprio, who sad-
ly hasn’t currently won any. The Great
Gatsby was looking to be a juicy role
but the film was bumped from its
original award-bait 2012 Christmas
Day release schedule to all the way in
May 2013 where, to be fair, the movie
enjoyed great box office success (al-
most $350 million globally).
Hope remains however, as Martin
Scorsese’s new film The Wolf of Wall
Street will certainly be going for that
awards glory. This could serve as Di-
Caprio’s fourth acting nomination. A
first win? Only time will tell.
Sleeper hits
Films that hold steady week after week despite stiff competition can give surpris-
ing results, as demonstrated by Now You See Me, a light-hearted heist movie
with slick magic acts to trick the audience, that showed some mighty holding
power in the charts. It opened modestly compared to its not-so-cheap budget,
but has now grossed over 350 million worldwide. Sequel? Already on the way.
Then there’s Lee Daniels’ The Butler, an inspirational true story about an
African-American witnessing all the important 20th Century American Civil
Rights events as he works in the White House. The American audience loved it
for obvious reasons, there’s talk of Forest Whitaker and Oprah Winfrey getting
some well-earned nominations, and it’s posting some more than respectable
numbers elsewhere, for a current grand total of $150+ million. Probably not ap-
propriate to expect a sequel for this one though.
Comedies
Amongst all the summer blockbuster madness, quite a few comedy films came
to light and enjoyed some effective counter-programming successes. We’re the
Millers turned out to be one of Jennifer Aniston’s highest grossing films ($269
million worldwide) even though it was facing what seemed to be an unfair fight
against the eagerly anticipated Elysium and other late-summer blockbusters
that attempted to steal the spotlight.
This is the End, starring everyone you can think of in an American stoner
comedy movie, opened in direct competition with Man of Steel, and yet was not
completely crushed by the superhero and did decent business in its complete
run, crossing the $100-million mark in the States alone, although results from
around the world were a touch disappointing.
Last but not least, Jonny Knoxville of Jackass fame decided to dress up as an
old man and do inappropriate things in front of his grandson. With a modest
budget of $15 million, Jackass Presents: Bad Grandpa is currently the second
biggest money-maker of the Jackass franchise, with almost $130 million in the
bank.
Animation
Families still love going to the cinemas, it seems, as there was quite a number of
animated hits this year, regardless of actual film quality.
Planes, an ill-advised Disney spinoff of Pixar’s Cars, was a flat, generic ride
with a colourful voice cast, and The Smurfs 2, which ended up being a whole
lot worse than its precessor, both generated a respectable number of ticket sales,
which means there are sequels planned for both films (oh dear God).
Two of this year’s earlier animated releases were The Croods and Epic. The
Croods did better business, but Epic also managed to hold its own despite Fast
& Furious 6, The Hangover Part III and Star Trek Into Darkness trying to out-
compete for the audience cash.
And who can forget the little yellow
minions of Despicable Me 2? Those
tiny little things are so popular they’re
getting their very own movie, set to
be released in 2015. Illumination En-
tertainment has found a gold mine
with this series, with Despicable Me
2 earning $900 million+ (!) this year
worldwide.
Let’s not forget about Pixar either,
who did well with their first ever pre-
quel, Monsters University.

