34 FRIDAY 06 DEC
FILM Editor: John Park
ﬁlm.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Here’s looking at you,
Itʼs been a bad year for...
Failed Oscar hopefuls
Australian actresses Nicole Kidman and Naomi Watts had big biopics planned to be released during the awards season;
Kidman playing Grace Kelly in Grace of Monaco with Watts taking over the role of Lady Diana Spencer in Diana.
Kidman’s film was bumped for an insignificant release date in March next year, whereas Watts’ film was widely panned
by critics who had nothing but scathingly harsh words to say about it, and became an industry laughing stock. The box-
office result for Diana was also abysmal, completely ruining whatever chance the film had in competing for awards.
The same goes for Benedict Cumberbatch and his muddled film The Fifth Estate. Despite the world’s favourite Sher-
lock putting on his best Aussie accent to impersonate Julian Assange, it failed to take off, having one of the worst opening
weekend numbers this year. “The Cumberbitches have got my back” he said. Err...sure about that?
Wolverine
Every Wolverine movie ends up mak-
ing less money than its predecessor
and this one was no exception. Simply
titled The Wolverine, the immortal
Adamantium-filled hero was sent to
Japan to fight assassins on a bullet
train and then throw that all away to
be a part of one of the worst final cli-
max sequences a 2013 film has so far
offered. It baffled and bored despite
Hugh Jackman’s best efforts to flex
every single muscle in his body, al-
though the end-credits scene hinting
at next year’s big X-Men reunion was
reassuring.
Abdellatif Kechiche
Despite his deserving Palme d’Or win this year, it’s not every director’s dream
to be labelled as being a nightmare to work with by two of his leading actress-
es (Adèle Exarchopoulos, Léa Seydoux). But such is the fate of the Blue is the
Warmest Colour director. The crew behind his film are claiming his never-end-
ing shooting schedule was illegal (harassment, unpaid hours), and his incredibly
long, graphic sex scenes have attracted controversy. It was all smiles, kisses and
tears of joy when the film premiered in Cannes, but since then there has been
an ugly war between the director and the cast/crew. Kechiche is now threaten-
ing to sue the defaming actresses, and has stated his wish the film should never
be released with all this bad press going with it. However this should only be a
minor setback for the Tunisian-French director, who is very much respected in
the European film market.
Desperate Twilight wannabes
Now that the Twilight and Harry Potter films are over, 2013 marked the race to see who could fill this gap with a lasting
franchise. Three potential candidates came forward, with all of them falling flat both in terms of not being able to make a
mark on the box office, as well as failing to impress the critics and cinema-goers.
First up was Beautiful Creatures, a story about good and bad witches, which had promising leads, with Alice Englert
and Alden Ehenreich doing their best not to sulk and be useless. It had a great supporting cast too, with Viola Davis, Jere-
my Irons, Emmy Rossum and Emma Thompson filling the adult roles. But the story went nowhere and although equipped
with so much supposed magic, the film failed to have fun with its fantasy concept. A box office disappointment? For sure.
Released next is the worst on the list, which was penned by the same woman who was responsible for Twilight. The
Host, arguably one of the most awful films of 2013, had the talented Saoirse Ronan caught up in a laughable love triangle as
she battled with her mind when it came to debating over who to kiss. The two lads in question were frustratingly slow, with
a possessed-looking Diane Kruger acting as an unintentionally hilarious villain. This also didn’t set the box office on fire.
Most disturbing however, was The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones, a film that came dangerously close to advocat-
ing incest as long as it doesn’t feel wrong in the heart. Any film that can quite seriously say with a straight face that Jo-
hannes Bach was a demon hunter is one that you shouldn’t feel bad about laughing at, which is the one thing this film was
good for. There are talks of a sequel for this, which is completely baffling since it barely made back its production budget.

