35
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 06 DEC
FILM
kid: a 2013 round-up
Old people
Die Hard came back for yet another addition to its struggling franchise, with the 58-year-old Bruce Willis teaming up with
Jai Courtney acting as John McClane’s tough CIA agent son (he had a son?!) as they cause chaos in Russia. The “old man”
jokes certainly got old and tiresome quickly as that was the only kind of dry humour the script had to offer in the midst
of highly unsatisfying action sequences.
But nothing could have been clunkier and more repetitive than Red 2, even with the kind of talent involved. Dame Helen
Mirren acting as a bad-ass spy never got the screentime that she deserved, and the “banter” hinging on Bruce Willis look-
ing careless, laid back and cool was downright embarrassing. Not even the newest additions to the cast, Anthony Hopkins
(old), Catherine Zeta-Jones (getting there), and Byung-hun Lee (also getting there) could add something genuinely fun to
the film.
And perhaps 2013 was the year in which has-been tough guys all collectively decided to stage simultaneous comebacks.
It all started with Sylvester Stallone beating everyone to a pulp in Bullet to the Head, a film that was both badly received
and bombed at the box office.
Then it was Arnie Schwarzenegger’s turn to produce something mediocre, which he did, with The Last Stand, in which
we found Forest Whitaker where he should never have been.
As if that wasn’t bad enough, Stallone and Schwarzenegger teamed up for Escape Plan, where they found themselves
imprisoned in the world’s most secure prison by Jesus Christ Jim Caviezel.
Clearly these guys need the money have the energy, passion and, most importantly, stamina to handle such physical
roles, which is probably why The Expendables 3 is set to be released in 2014 with an even bigger cast.
Box office losers
It’s unrealistic to expect that every movie will turn a profit and become a runaway hit. For every hit there’s a miss, and this
year quite a few of those misses managed to haemorrhage money for their studios.
Jack the Giant Slayer did debut at the top of the United States box office but opening to a feeble $27-million three-day
weekend gross. Its budget? $195 million. Without a bankable star (Nicholas Hoult is not yet someone whose name alone
can attract a large group to cinemas) and without an appealing idea that clearly aimed at a broad demographic (word is,
the director’s darker, adult-themed vision clashed with the studio who wanted a family-friendly action-adventure film), no
one was all that keen on Jack and his dangerous quest to save a princess he has a crush on.
Disney has reportedly broken its studio record with $4 billion at the global box office. Perhaps that can be used to plug
the gigantic hole that was made when Gore Verbinski’s hugely expensive western The Lone Ranger flopped hard. The film
alone created a loss of $160-190 million, but given the $4-billion intake, are we really feeling sorry for them? The failure
must come as a blow, however, to the usually hit-making producer Jerry Bruckheimer and his regular collaborating direc-
tor Verbinski. They tried blaming the critics for the diappointing financial performance, which of course is ludicrous, since
critics more often than not have very little sway over what the public chooses to watch (as evidently proved by the ever-so
popular Transformers franchise).
Now Sam Raimi’s Oz the Great and Powerful wasn’t as big a flop as the two films already mentioned, but given the ex-
tremely high production cost, the cast, as well as the big hype involved in trying to become Disney’s next early-year March
hit (much like 2010’s Alice in Wonderland), it should have performed much, much better. A sequel is in the works, thanks
to a good push from the international contribution, but it will be a struggle to keep this one alive for long.
Science-fiction
It’s a genre that is tough to crack, especially if working with original material
that doesn’t have an established fanbase, and this year was no exception when
it came to expensively-shot movies not securing a big-enough audience to truly
consider itself a massive success.
Cloud Atlas is one that no one saw but everyone should see, Oblivion un-
derperformed despite carrying the name Tom Cruise as its leading man, Guill-
ermo del Toro’s robots vs. monsters movie Pacific Rim wasn’t as explosive as its
bombastic action scenes, South African director Neill Blomkamp’s sophomore
directorial feature Elysium was muddled and received mixed reviews and failed
to become a big hit, Ender’s Game hardly turned into the worldwide motion
picture event it promised to be, with R.I.P.D. and After Earth severely flopping,
as very few people had nice words to say about either of those films.
The White House
Terrorists just can’t help themselves when it comes to attacking the most iconic
building in the United States. The beloved White House that houses the Presi-
dent was attacked not once, but twice in 2013, and each time America was lucky
to have a lone-wolf hero working his butt off trying to first save the President,
but then the world.
Olympus Has Fallen saw Gerard Butler, the retired Secret Service agent be-
ing the last hope for America as terrorists tortured the highest ranking govern-
ment officials for nuclear codes.
White House Down had Channing Tatum protect Jamie Foxx the President as
they humourously banter with one another in the direst of circumstance while
everyone looks on in disbelief.
Hasn’t the White House suffered, seen, and been through enough by now?

