41
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 06 DEC
TECHNOLOGY
o, if they were crapping money
Yong Wen Chua, fancy shmancy yet completely down-to-earth
Well,isn’tthisabeauty:this31.5inchTV
sitting on a desk is capable of displaying
a resolution of 3840 by 2160 pixels (4K)
is simply a marvel.It is also the ﬁrst
of its kind for the consumer market.
Anandtech calls this a display that has
“ left [them] in constant awe over how
incredible it was to use on a day-to-day
basis”
. Deﬁnitely a must have when
trying to write all those thousand lines
C++ code projects. Those pesky missing
semicolons will now be displayed in
glorious 4K.
Of course, if you have such a gorgeous
display, you also need something
really good to drive the display. Always
looking for the best, the new nVidia
ﬂagship would just about suﬃce.
Once again, because I am too poor
to actually get one of these gems, I
would have to turn to Anandtech who
calls this graphics card is “simply in a
league of its own right now, reaching
levels of performance no other single-
GPU card can touch”.
When you’ve got a setup as gorgeous
as mine (eventually, after Christmas!),
you’ve got to capture the moment
with a good camera so that you can
broadcast it to the world via Facebook,
Twitter, and the likes! What better way
than to use the Sony NEX7 camera.
It’s a mirrorless camera that allows for
interchangeable lens. It’s one of those
compact DSLR cameras that you
could potentially ﬁt into a small bag.
I write lots of code, perhaps GB
worth of code on my computer
(don’t even ask how many lines of
code there are). Of course I would
need something to store those tons
of code -- and the 960 GB SSD is the
best that money can buy right now!
With a cost of nearly £0.60 per GB,
the SSD prices have never been any
lower for this reliable medium.
Finally, when writing code, I would
like to immerse myself in the world
of digital music. I hate wires getting
in the way, and the Ultimate Ears
(UE) 9000 headphones is probably
the best bluetooth headphones you
can get out there on the market. The
noise cancellation and audio profile
on this thing might not be perfect,
but it is one of the most expensive
right now.
UE 9000 Wireless
Bluetooth
Headphones
Crucial M500 960
GB Solid State Drive
Sony NEX7
Mirrorless Camera
nVidia GeForce GTX
Titan Graphics Card
Asus PQ321QE 31.5
inch Widescreen
LCD Monitor
E
very year, as Christmas nears, I would like to think that I have some really rich and wealthy relative who is a Lord somewhere, perhaps some Lord of the Silicon. I would then write up a list of ﬁve
items I would really like to have and then present it to them, knowing that I would probably get almost all of the items on the list that very Christmas. So this year, I am going to do the same. To help
those busy Lords out, I’m going to list the prices of the items in my list, just to show them how little it would cost them. Of course, because they are so busy, I would like to help them out by including
the prices from Amazon UK too, so that they could just click those “1-click order” buttons and send them my way.
www.10MinutesWith.com
10 Minutes With creates short and informative vi-
deo interviews to provide students with a wealth
of career guidance. Upon signing up and completing
a profile, students are provided with unique oppor-
tunities within established companies across Europe
and Asia.
The industries leaders are looking for fresh engine-
ering and business talent across the country - sign
up, complete your profile, and let them find you.
www.10Minutes
10 Minutes With creates sh
deo interviews to provide s
of career guidance. Upon sig
a profile, students are provi
tunities within established co
and Asia.
The industries leaders are lo
ering and business talent ac
up, complete your profile, and
Felix Technology
wishes you a long
and fruitful holiday!
Let us know if
you receive any
awesome presents
(and feel free to
write a review
or two) !

