42 FRIDAY 06 DEC
FOOD
Editor: Carol Ann Cheah,
Michael Yat Kit Chung
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Hungry for gift ideas?
Felix Food is on hand to help with your Secret Santa (under £5)
INTO THE FUTURE
Sometimes we think that a
customised gift is a lot more
personal – be it a named memory
stick or a hand-drawn Christmas
card. It might sound like something
from Star Trek, but how about
printing food? NASA has invested
USD$125,000 into a project looking
into this, but you don’t need to be
an astronaut to try this cutting-
edge food. Although the idea might
not sound appetising, a Barcelona
startup is now working on a
machine that can sit comfortably in
your kitchen. The idea is similar to a
3D printer you may ﬁnd in the lab,
raw ingredients are made into paste
form and the dish is built layer by
layer. The device, called Foodini, will
sport up to six capsules so, in theory,
dishes with six ingredients can be
‘manufactured’. The prototype has
shown massive potential – custom
Celebrate Christmas at Imperial
PREZZYBOX.COM
Being engineers, scientists and medics, we at Imperial should have quite good
problem solving skills, yet be creative at the same time. Using what we have
learnt in lectures to twist and turn this set of straws and create loads of crazy
shapes will be quite interesting in any situation! There are 21 pieces in total
so it will keep you entertained after the end of term when you suﬀer from
coursework withdrawal symptoms.
This could be more fun if you arrive at the party and have a few packs to hand
- not only is it a great game to play with everyone, but also, you can probably
build a network to drink from two glasses at the same time! Who needs mixers
anyway?
DIY Drinking Straws
PREZZYBOX.COM
Let’s be honest, it’s a problem we face every day, not just at Christmas:
taking cold drinks out of the fridge. To the standard of most people, room
temperature is not exactly ideal for ‘best served cold’. Ice cubes might do the
job for half an hour, but soon it might make your coke tastes like it’s from a
dispenser machine in the JCR.
This ice tankard has a sealed outer wall that is ﬁlled with freezable liquid, so
the product is portable and ‘cool’. Just freeze the mug and the liquid will keep
your drink cold without the need for ice! The only thing we can pick on is that
it can only hold 400ml – that’s not even a pint!
Ice Tankard
FIREBOX.COM
This gift is for two types of people: avid tea/coﬀee drinkers and people who
are plain lazy! Let’s be honest, washing up a teaspoon can be quite an eﬀort
sometimes, or worse, it could leave stains on shiny silverware/steelware.
This mug could potentially change the world for the better, you only need
to ﬂick the switch and the mug stirs away, creating a tea vortex. The switch is
ergonomically located at the top of handle, so there really is no excuse for an
imperfect cup of hot drink. Just need to remember to buy the batteries, and oh,
you can’t put it in a dishwater – so it’s not completely lazy-proof.
Self Stir Mug
FLUFFYPUFFPUFFS.COM
Marshmallows are a must for any barbecues. Sadly it is way too cold to have
one in December. Just to remind you and your friends of that toasty feeling,
why not try these gourmet marshmallows? London-based start up Fluﬀy Puﬀ
Puﬀs makes them with unusal ﬂavour combinations, like key lime pie, caramel
slice and even Oreos.
A new ﬂavour has recently been added to the store – a Christmassy one with
rum and dried fruit Christmas pie. These mallows have no added preservatives
so that even suits those who like natural ingredients! Available online and
some food markets at the weekend!
Gourmet Marshmallows
NATURAL MACHINES
A giant gingerbread castle from our very own Comment Editor, Tess Davey.
shaped chocolate, cakes and even
ravioli are literally a few clicks away.
The most impressive food it has
made so far is a bean cheeseburger
– again, printing layer by layer,
ingredients by ingredient,and then
into the oven to cook.
The idea behind this is to
encourage more healthy home
eating. The device gives a chance
for users to know what exactly is
in the food they are about to eat.
And since we are living in the 21st
century, the device is even cloud
connected, making recipe sharing
and instagramming that much
easier. This might sound a bit like
a gimmick, but the machine is due
to be on the market in the next
few years at around €1000. So still
slightly cheaper than the cheapest
MacBook Air, would you consider
it?
The end of term is upon us and it’s time
to celebrate what we have achieved
this term and year. Want a traditional
Christmas meal but feel lazy and
don’t want to spend a fortune? There
is so much to try, even at Imperial!
FiveSixEight
FiveSixEight is serving Christmas
dinner at a bargain price of £6.50
next Tuesday and Thursday. It’s got
all you can expect – roast turkey,
roast potatoes, pigs in blankets and
the usual vegetables. You even get
a free cracker – so enjoy it with
a couple of friends or even just
yourself, but that will be a bit boring.
On a slightly diﬀerent subject,
Mushroom, Tomato and Basil has
won out on the pizza poll and will be
available all week until the end of term!
Eastside Bar
Want something more substantial?
The Eastside bar is serving a three
course dinner at £13.95 – starting with
salmon, turkey roast with port and
even Christmas pudding. They even
provideanalternatedessert–chocolate
fondant! If only we can have both….
Available every day until 20 December.
Booking advised for large groups.
College Cafe
Gingerbread latte is available in
College Cafe and it tastes just about as
good as Costa’s. And it’s just £1.99 for
a large one (student price)!
On #FelixFood this week

