43
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 06 DEC
CAREERS
Spoilt for Choice? How to decide
I
f you ﬁnd yourself in the position of
having more than one job oﬀer give
yourself a pat on the back. Well done!
However, it can be surprisingly hard to
decide which one to accept
Remember that diﬀerent factors are
important for diﬀerent individuals. Make
sure you have suﬃcient information when
trying to make up your mind. You can
ask prospective employers for both more
information and more time to decide.
The list below is an attempt to cover the
factors you might consider when making
your decision, but it is not exhaustive.
Your decision will be uniquely your own.
Remember that your ﬁrst job is simply that,
and not a life-sentence. However an unwise
decision can mean a few very diﬃcult
months.
Money, hugely important but…
When you have debts to pay oﬀ, this seems
like a big factor. However, remember that
salarymayrisequitequicklyintheﬁrstcouple
of years of employment. Then there may
be bonuses, and other beneﬁts to consider.
Do not attach too much signiﬁcance to the
starting salary. Remember also that salary
progression may be much faster in some
areas of employment than in others.
Nonstop training
Think about the training opportunities
each job will provide. In today’s relatively
ﬂuid job market, it is more important than
ever to take responsibility for your own
career development. Being in a good position
to keep learning and developing skills is a
great advantage, whether you are hoping
for progression or for a change of career
direction later on. If formal study is required,
make sure the issue of study leave and fee
payment is clear.
The daily grind
Do you know enough about what you will
actually be doing day-to-day in the job? Will
it provide enough variety and intellectual
challenge? Is the level of responsibility about
right, and how soon will that responsibility
come? Is the job likely to be pressured, with
lots of deadlines, and are you likely to enjoy
that? Will you be essentially oﬃce based, out
on site, meeting with clients and customers or
working with other parts of the organisation?
What about the future?
Think about the state of health of the
prospective employer and/or its sector – is
it expanding or contracting? Is the company
proﬁtable or does the organisation have a
good reputation? In an uncertain world, it
may be better if a job oﬀers a range of career
development options, rather than leading
into a narrow ﬁeld. How marketable are you
likely to be after two years’ experience?
Little or large?
Advantages of larger employers can include
the following: more training on oﬀer, internal
moves are possible, more recent graduates
around so better support/social life.
However, in a larger ﬁrm you may feel your
contribution is not signiﬁcant, you might
get “stuck” in a department and you might
struggle with bureaucratic systems. On the
other hand, in a smaller organisation it may
be possible to gain a responsible position or
be “making a diﬀerence” more quickly. There
may be the opportunity for wider ranging
experience and the organisation may be less
bureaucratic. On the negative side, there may
be less opportunity for formal training, the
peer group may be small leading to feelings
of isolation, and there may be little chance of
internal moves.
Comfort factors
You should consider whether the job may
conﬂict with your values. Do you admire the
products or services of this employer? Does
its environmental stance cause you concern?
Are there other ethical issues? You won’t
be happy working somewhere if there’s a
fundamental misalignment here.
Shirt & Ties or T-shirts & Jeans
This may not be easy to deﬁne, but it
includes things like whether or not the
organisation is static, formal and rigid
or ﬂuid, informal and embraces change.
Is there a very clear hierarchy within the
organisation? Who would you be reporting
to and where do they ﬁt within the structure.
When you visited the organisation what was
the level of formality, how did people meet
and greet each other. Think about the other
employees you have already met. If you liked
them, you would probably be quite happy
working with them.
Nine to Five?
Many employers these days talk about the
“work/life” balance which is quite important
to many graduates. However, in some
organisations there can be a ‘long-hours’
culture with lots of unoﬃcial overtime and
weekend work. Does the organisation
encourage working from home? Will you
have a set location or desk or is ‘hot desking’
the norm? What about travelling away from
home? Is this something that you will do
regularly and if so what proportion of your
day/week/month will be away? Consider
what your priorities are. Is it important for
you to maintain regular social, sporting or
relationship commitments outside of work
and how will the job impact on this?
Location, Location, Location
Think about your journey to work, the cost
of living in the area and any likely advantages
or disadvantages of the location. House
prices and the cost of renting might have
an impact on your decision. Can you still
get access to the things that are important
to you, culture, entertainment, friends and
family? Satisfy yourself that you will be able
to aﬀord to live within a reasonable distance
of the job and that you are likely to be happy
doing so.
Hopefully these ideas will help you to
evaluate any oﬀers that you receive and make
a well informed choice. The important thing
is to keep your employer contacts informed.
Do not just accept everything and think that
you can make a decision later. Reneging
on job oﬀers is very deﬁnitely frowned
upon by recruiters and, as the graduate
recruitment market is a surprisingly close
knit community where people do actually
meet and talk with each other, you could get
a bad reputation very quickly by reneging. It
is much better to be honest and open and let
all concerned know that you might like some
more time to make a decision. Asking for a
week or perhaps two is reasonable but don’t
expect a company to keep a job oﬀer open for
much longer than that. Remember that every
oﬀer you are hanging on to is an oﬀer that
someone else cloud beneﬁt from. If you need
help making your decision talk it through
with others, friends, family, you can also use
your careers consultant at College as a useful
sounding board. But if you do discuss with
others remember the ﬁnal decision must be
yours!
The Careers Service
Imperial College London
Careers
Events
Workshop
9 December, 12:30 – 14:00
Preparing For Assessment Centres - Presentation
Skills
Workshop
10 December, 12:30 – 14:00
Preparing for Assessment Centres – In-Tray /
E-tray Exercises
Seminar
10 December, 16:15 – 17:15
Assessment Centres
Workshop
11 December, 12:30 – 14:00
Group Mock Interview
Seminar
11 December, 16:15 – 17:15
CV
Workshop
12 December, 12:30 – 14:00
Preparing For Assessment Centres - Group
Activities
Seminar
12 December, 16:15 – 17:15
Interviews
Seminar
13 December, 12:30 – 13:30
Applying for Postgraduate Study
Hmmm, this might take a while... Should you go for the sweetest or the toughest?
Apply via Jobs Live unless stated
WNYC.ORG

