46 FRIDAY 06 DEC
CLUBS & SOCS Editor: Nida Mahmud
felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
s the nights draw in,
coursework piles up and
dreamy smiles cross students’
faces at the thought of the
Christmas holidays, Imperial
Cinema are hard at work preparing for an
evening of hostages, hotdogs, Somali pirates
and soup. That’s right, it’s time for your
favourite event of the year: the Winter All-
Nighter.
Imagine if you will, a Tuesday night in the
Union. Everything seems normal downstairs,
as the bar is full of people enjoying their
slightly-too-expensive pints. Up a ﬂoor
and things begin to change. Winding down
the staircase you see a queue of people in
dressing gowns, their nonchalant poses
slightly ruined by the fact that they are
cuddling pillows. You try to ﬁgure out what
is going on, you hear talk of people ﬁlled
with regret at having to spend an extra two
pounds on an all-night ticket as they forgot
to buy online beforehand. You realise this is
where you’ve wanted to spend your evening
all along: the cinema.
As you take the seat that will become your
home for the next fourteen hours, you are
ﬁlled with anticipation, almost bubbling
over with excitement. This is soon replaced
with an uncomfortable sensation in your left
buttock as you realise why people decided to
bring pillows, which you attempt to rectify by
doing a strange dance in your seat to remove
the pressure, resulting in strange looks from
all around you. But, this soon passes as the
ﬁrst ﬁlm begins.
Three ﬁlms pass and you’re doing ﬁne. But
as midnight comes and goes, you begin to
dream of the staple of university students
everywhere: caﬀeine. You pray to every deity
you can think of to supply you with just
one drop, before you remember that you
actually paid for free food and make your
way upstairs.
Warmed to the depths of your soul by
soup, and energised by coﬀee near saturated
with sugar, you feel ready to continue. You
watch as the people around you slowly give
up, dropping oﬀ to sleep in their seat, or for
some lucky few, sneaking back to their room
in Beit for a quick nap. But you know that
you are stronger than them. You know that
you can make the entire night.
And you do. As dawn breaks, you feel the
pride of being alert and aware, satisﬁed by
the ﬁlms you have just witnessed. Now you
return to your home, to be reunited with the
one you know as sleep.
Now only one question remains. What
ﬁlms are we actually showing?
First up, we have the new and genius
concept of precocious children capable
of greatness, as Earth’s brightest kids are
trained to become military commanders
against an alien threat, the Formics. But
this is much more than Harry Potter in
space, as we follow the life of six year old
Andrew ‘Ender’ Wiggen, watching him
grow from bullied child to a man capable
of fulﬁlling his destiny. Based on the 1985
novel by Orson Scott Card, Ender’s Game
boasts gorgeous cinematography, zero
gravity battle sequences and the ﬁrst time
we’ve seen Harrison Ford in space since Star
Wars. And if you are worried about Card
gaining your hard earned cash (also known
as booze money) to put towards his famous
homophobic rants, you need not worry. He
doesn’t see a penny of the proﬁt of this ﬁlm.
Next, from Formics to Formula 1 we have
Ron Howard’s racing drama: Rush. Even
for those who have better things to do on a
Sunday than watch people drive in circles,
this ﬁlm is an engaging watch. Set during the
1976 racing season, Rush is the tale of the
rivalry between English ladies man James
Hunt, and austere Austrian Niki Lauda from
Brazilian beginnings, through ﬁery German
crashes to the adrenaline fuelled Japanese
ﬁnale. Overall, with superb acting, a well
written script and action packed directing,
Rush is a slick, well-oiled machine (sorry).
The ﬁrst in our accidental trio of hostage
related ﬁlms is Captain Phillips. This is far
from your stereotypical pirate ﬁlm, you won’t
hear a single ‘arr’ in this chilling thriller based
on a true story. The eponymous Captain
Phillips has his cargo ship overtaken over by
Somali pirate Muse, who decides to hold him
and his crew hostage in the hope of making
millions. This plan gets even more dangerous
for both parties involved when the US Navy
get on the scene. Captain Phillips is exciting,
tense and will probably make you think twice
about that beach holiday to Somalia you
were planning over the summer.
The stakes have never been higher for
everyone’s favourite Norfolk DJ as he returns
for his big screen debut. In Alan Partridge:
Alpha Papa, after fellow DJ Pat Farrell is
threatened with redundancy, he decides that
the only solution is to hold the rest of the staﬀ
hostage. And the only person that he will
negotiate with is Partridge himself. Despite
nearly twenty years since his ﬁrst outing, this
ﬁlm shows that Partridge still is, as he always
has been hilarious, embarrassing and still
somehow loveable.
Prisoners asks the question of how far you
would go keep your family safe. After his
youngdaughterandherfriendarekidnapped,
and the only suspect is released due to a lack
of evidence, Keller Dover decides to take
matter. With a great performance by Hugh
Jackman, and Jake Gyllenhaal tattooed and
rugged like we’ve never seen him before, this
is the perfect ﬁlm to keep you awake at four
in the morning.
Our ﬁnal ﬁlm is Joss Whedon’s latest
oﬀering. From the genius behind Buﬀy and
Cabin in the Woods, and featuring cast that
includes Agent Coulson from Avengers:
Assemble and Mal from Firefly, this is a
recipe for sci-ﬁ magic. Or Shakespeare for
that matter. Filmed in Whedon’s house
in the two weeks between ﬁlming and
editing Avengers: Assemble, this modern
adaptation of Much Ado About Nothing is a
monochrome masterpiece.
So there it is. A chance to see six ﬁlms for
the price you would usually pay to see one.
And a decent excuse to miss lectures the
next day. So what are you waiting for, book
your tickets now. I’ll see you there!
Line Up:
18:00: Ender’s Game
20:30: Rush
23:30: Captain Phillips
02:00: Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa
03.45: Prisoners
06:30: Much Ado About Nothing
The Winter All-Nighter is on Tuesday 10th
December.
Tickets are £10 online (until 4pm on the day)
or £12 on the door. If you don’t fancy staying
all night, tickets are £3 per ﬁlm on the door.
For an extra £5, you can get All-You-Can-Eat
Hot Food and Drink all night. This includes
the usual mix of tea, coﬀee, toasties, hot
dogs, soup, pot noodles and more.
Tickets can be bought from tickets.
imperialcinema.co.uk.
The Winter All-Nighter
What to expect at ICU Cinemaʼs movie marathon
Ellen Mathieson
ICU Cinema
Yas Edwards
Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies)
Y Ed d
G
ive It A Go is a programme that ran
for the ﬁrst time at Imperial College
Union in October. The aim of the
programme was to give a taste of some
of the numerous activities oﬀered by
our many Clubs, Societies & Projects. These were
predominantly free or cheap taster sessions, events
and activities which most importantly did not require
the purchase of any membership beforehand. The
aim was to enable students to try new activities with
many diﬀerent clubs before committing to becoming a
member. As many Clubs, Societies & Projects already
ran such activities it seemed a natural step to help
them publicise them all under the one banner.
We had almost 3,000 students participating in the
activities on oﬀer and it really highlighted some of the
amazing activities that our Clubs, Societies & Projects
oﬀer. Synchronised swimmming, Greek dancing,
learning how to run a cinema projector, and building
an energy kiosk were just a few of the varied activities
for students to experience.
71 clubs in total were involved in our ﬁrst Give It A
Go and received publicity in booklets distributed at
Freshers’ Fair 2013 and on the What’s On pages of the
Union website. Membership ﬁgures are almost 5% up
on where they were at the same point last year and our
feedback suggests that Give It A Go certainly helped
with this.
So where next with Give It A Go? We asked
participating clubs if they thought they would
beneﬁt from a second scheme in January and 76% of
respondents thought they would. Many people miss
opportunities in ﬁrst term due to the time constraints
of adapting to new timetables and London life and it’s
not too late to try something new and to join a Club,
Society or Project that you’ve not been involved in
before. That’s why Give It A Go will be making a return
in January, with more opportunities to get involved
in the exciting opportunities provided by our Clubs,
Societies & Projects.
Clubs, Societies & Projects can sign up to Give It A
Go online until Wednesday 11 December. This will
ensure you get for free advertising and promotion of
events in booklets, online and through promotional
activities on South Kensington campus.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION CINEMA§
Give It A Go!

