8 FRIDAY 06 DEC
WELLBEING Editor: Marissa Lewis
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Marissa Lewis
Wellbeing Editor
Depression Mythbusters
With all the talk of mental health awareness ﬂoating arounf with exam stress and other bothers that we all undoubtably experience,
it may be heard to distinguish what is meant by depression as a mental health condition. Open Minds are here to debunk some of the
common preconceptions of depression.
Depression is not a real medical illness
Depression is a diagnosable illness, deﬁned as “a common mental disorder, characterized by sadness, loss of interest
or pleasure, feelings of guilt or low self-worth, disturbed sleep or appetite, feelings of tiredness, and poor concentration”
(World Health Organisation).
There are many different types of depression
As a general term, depression can be classed as: major, which may involve feelings of lowered self-esteem, and a
lack of motivation to work, sleep, eat, or do once-pleasurable activities for a certain period of time; chronic, where
symptoms are less severe but depression lasts for a longer period of time; or bipolar/manic, where one’s mood may
swing between extreme depression and extreme happiness. Other mental health conditions may also be associated
with depression. Depression will likely manifest itself diﬀerently in diﬀerent people.
You can inherit depression from your family
There is some evidence that depression runs in families, although no speciﬁc causative genes have been found. This
does not mean that you will deﬁnitely get depression if someone in your family has it, nor does it mean that you cannot
suﬀer from depression if it does not run in your family.
Everyone gets depressed sometimes
Life can be very stressful, and everyone will go through spells of feeling down. However, with depression, these
feelings persist for weeks, months, or years. Depression is an illness with speciﬁc symptoms such as losing interest in
things that you previously enjoyed, feeling like you are a failure and having trouble sleeping or sleeping too much. If you
think you may be depressed, you should see your GP as soon as possible.
Youʼre depressed because you donʼt exercise enough
Depression cannot be classed as a mood that can be ‘snapped out of’. Rather, it is an illness that requires recognised
treatments and, likely, a certain recovery time. Good diet and exercise can help to alleviate a low mood, but they are
not a cure for depression.
Depression is treatable
Yes! There are many diﬀerent treatment options for depression. The treatment will depend on the type, and severity,
of depression you experience. Some common options are:
• Medication: selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are commonly used to treat depression and anxiety.
They boost serotonin levels in the brain to help lift mood. Medication is not a magical cure for depression, and
SSRIs are often taken in conjunction with talking therapies or CBT.
• Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT): CBT aims to link how you feel (cognition) to how you act (behaviour). It
does not focus on your past or what may have caused your depression, but rather on practical ways to manage
your feelings in a positive way. Treatment may include keeping a mood diary or making a diagram linking your
thoughts, feelings and behaviour, in order to break the negative cycle of depression.
• Counselling: counselling is a form of talking therapy where a trained counsellor will provide a safe environment
in which for you to express your feelings. Rather than oﬀering advice, counselling will help you to ﬁnd your own
insight and understanding of your problems.
These things are often easier said than done and you need to be fully committed to treatment for it to work. However,
most people do recover from depression if they seek treatment early.
Do you have any ﬁrst-hand experiences of
mental health conditions that you would like to
share? Send them in to: disoff@imperial.ac.uk
If you would like to get involved in the
IC Open Minds mental health awareness
campaign, ʻlikeʼ us on Facebook: https://www.
facebook.com/ICOpenMinds
Or contact Moeko: disoff@imperial.ac.uk
World AIDS Day: 1st December 2013
Education is key in the ﬁght against stigma associated with HIV, believed to
be one of the biggest barriers that hinders the drive towards more testing and
helping those living with HIV live a life without fear of discrimination. If you
would like to know more about the recent challenges and developments in
the HIV story or a personal insight in to the life of someone living with HIV
in the UK, come along to this free event! Medsin Imperial invites you to an
evening with Red Elmahdi, currently undertaking a PhD in the subject, and
Sophie Strachan, from the charity Positively UK on Tuesday December 10th
in the Huxley Building, LT 711C at 6pm. We will also be selling red ribbons,
so come along, ask questions, wear a ribbon and show your support!
We look forward to seeing you there!
Five facts about HIV
1. People with HIV have a normal life span if diagnosed
and treated in time
2. There’s no job that someone can’t do speciﬁcally
because they have HIV
3. Treatment can mean that people living with HIV are
no longer infectious - in face treatment can reduce
infectiousness by 96%
4. Men and women living with HIV can become parents
of an HIV-free baby
5. BUT people living with HIV still face stigma and
discrimination
Hi I’m Marissa. As well as being Deputy President
(Welfare) of the Union, I’m also the editor for the
Wellbeing section of Felix.
The Wellbeing section will run fortnightly and feature
articles from students about any issue which aﬀects us or
our friends. Whether it’s an article about cycling safely in
London, leading a healthy lifestyle or about what you or
your society is doing for a national, international or Union
campaign, I’d love to hear from you.
At Imperial, it’s very easy to fall into the trap of
caring about our academic work more than we care
about ourselves and living for the end of each term or
coursework assignment. However, this isn’t a sustainable
way of working and it deﬁnitely isn’t an enjoyable way of
spending your years at university. It is such a cliche to
say how important creating a work-life balance is, but
ensuring you are able to look after yourself whilst looking
after your studies will set you up for the workd of work
when you don’t have a lovely DPW to look after you.
MEDSIN talk about their take on this international campaign
Welcome to Wellbeing

