The Cults
Members of the Unification Church have been seen around College in the past week,
discussing religion, God and life with anyone who stops to talk to them. While you are in
London you will doubtless be approached by at least one of the hundreds of religious cults
which are kicking around offering peace, tranquility and self-awareness. These cults have
been described by church leaders and the mass media as dangerous homewreckers, needlessly
destroying lives and have been accused of employing brainwashing techniques to undermine
society. However Duncan Campbell investigating cults for City Limits fround them to be on
the whole quite harmless organisations in which some people have unhappy experiences and
other people have enlightening experiences. He described the new religions as a form of
spiritual jogging: "You look a bit silly, you feel better and you really benefit yourself. The
Church's condemnation of them seems hypocritical, the chain store defending itself against
the Oriental street shop which stays open later and offers a more convenient service."
In this special FELIX investigation we attempt to find out what these cults are about, how
to recognise them and whether they are as dangerous as is often made out.
Hare Krishna
Everyone must have met Hare Krishnas at some
time. They used to be conspicuous in their saffron
robes and shaven heads. Now they are more likely
to be seen dancing gaily amongst shoppers in
jeans, inviting you to make a donation in turn for
a 'free' book or record. They might invite you
back for a free meal at their place.
Members of the sect are required to live in
temples and submit themselves completely to
their temple leader, to the extent of having their
marriages arranged. Members are strict vegeta-
rians and do not drink, smoke, gamble, or play
games. Life is full of prayer and services and
collecting on the streets with only five hours of
sleep. The cult believes that men are superior to
women. Sex is only allowed for married couples
and only for procreation. A Moonie preaching the Gospel according to Rev Sun Myung Moon outside
Moonies
Perhaps the best known of all the cults, especially
since losing the largest libel action in British legal
history, the Moonies specialise in approaching
lost or lonely young people. They will seem very
friendly and will invite people back to their
Lancaster Gate headquarters and give them the
'loving treatment' over a cup of coffee. People
who show an interest in the sect are invited back
for a meal and are persuaded to go on a 'course'
for a weekend, where they are given 'intensive
teaching' consisting of physical exhaustion, sleep
deprivation or incessant lectures and pressure to
confess faults. People who wish to join are en-
couraged to give up their jobs, home, possessions
and live at one of the Church's centres.
The School of Economic Science
You may have seen the School's advertisements
in tube stations for philosophy courses. They run
a twelve week lecture course for just £16, £8 for
students. The philosophy they teach is their own.
One of the first things the school*will tell you is
not to tell your friends about the lectures other-
wise the importance of what they tell you will be
lost. They will tell you that the school is the most
important element in your life. If you decide the
SpecialFeature
school is not for you and decide to leave they will
pester you with letters, asking why you have left.
They sometimes make personal calls too.
A number of students are persuaded to stay on
at the school as 'helpers' doing menial tasks at the
school free of charge and running the school.
Scientology
You will probably come across Scientologists
along Tottenham Court Rd or Portabello Rd
offering free personality tests. The results will
reveal that you are really quite an awful person
and that salvation can only be gained by taking
one of their very expensive courses.
Scientology was founded by the well-known
Science Fiction writer L Ron Hubbard, and
claims to be able to effect dramatic improvement
in the mental and physical well-being of its ad-
herents. In his book Dianetics, the modern science
of mental health, Hubbard describes how one
might advance through a series of grades by
undertaking a course of training and tuition,
payment for which may amount to hundreds,
even thousands of pounds.
it's n o t o n l y y o u r m o n e y t h e y ' r e a f t e r . . . . . .
THE Oil
Two IC Students Tell of Their Experiences With the Local Cults
"Thelove,studyorpursuitofwisdom
1 or knowledge of things and their
1 causes" O
X
F
O
R
DENGLISHD
I
C
T
I
O
N
A
R
Y
Throughouttheages,Manhasaskedsimpleyet
fundamentalquestions.
U hoamI?VX'hatisthepurposeandfunctionof
;nylife?Whatismyrelationshiptothev/ot\iatlarge?
An introductory course of 12 lectures in
Philosophy considers these and oihet related ques-
tions. It is designed to help students make eHeciive
use of the great philosophic teachings which have
| rrnWed men and women throughout the ages to
discoverdirectionand purposeintheirlives.
The course, v/hich includes the opportunity
fordiscussion, inquiresintoiheworld inv.bkhwclive,
themeaningofhumanexistenceand theaimof life.
It examines the nature ofMan, his awareness
andpossibilitiesandconsidershowinapractical way
hemaydevelophis powerstothefult
The lectures are repeated each evening,
MondaytoFridayandonSaturday mornings, soyou
mayvaryyourdayofattendancefrom week toweek,
j Thefee is£16.00(£800forfull-time students) You
| mayenrolimmediatelybypost, telephoneorpersonal
I call to the School ofEconomic Sciencel
_?0.(2ueens!
Gate, LondonSW7 SAB,(lei: Oi-373 or when1
youfirstattend. ,
THE SCHOOL OF ECONOMIC SCIENCE
The advertisement of a philosophy course interested me immedi-
ately. I felt that purely scientific training left undesirable gaps in my
knowledge of culture and my ability to look at the world from a
'mature' standpoint. I'm normally as apathetic as the next man, but
these lectures were in Queensgate. What a piece of luck, I felt!
I would not have followed up a classified ad, but this double
column looked impressive and respectable. The descriptions: "the
great philosophic teachings which have enabled men and women
throughout the ages to discover direction and purpose in their
lives...etc" are compelling and, even as I re-read them, beautiful.
What now seems strange is that an organisation I had never heard
of, the School of Economic Science, should list nineteen schools all
over England and repeat the lectures every evening of the week
(when other adult eduction classes frequently teeter because the
numbers don't justify one evening). This advertisement even
invites us to vary our day of attendance.
To my surprise, the lecture went slowly. After ten minutes the
lady lecturing hadn't said anything at all. But she was obviously well
prepared and soon coaxed the class into a discussion about
wisdom. Somehow our result was-a general agreement on a
verbose definition which meant nothing. I was disappointed, but at
least I had contributed to the discussion. Since the rest of the class
had all beer, involved in formulating our definition, I assumed that I
was more illiterate than I had supposed. The rest of the time until
the break was more useful. We studied a diagram about conscious-
ness. It wasn't very scientific, but who was I to object to the ideas of
(as I thought) the great philosophers? The teacher was a beginner,
but I could hardly fault her after she told us that she and her
colleagues worked unpaid, for the love of it. It never occured to me
that this was strange.
After tea we heard some soporific passages and then learnt how
to isolate ourselves from our surroundings by deep concentration!
I know that this is supposed to help philosophers, but I had not
known how important it was.
Thankfully, I never went back (despite the letters). This happens -
in many cases, and the falling register causes the daily classes to
merge. In the remaining cases, students may never leave. There is
no problem in persuading them all that one evening is convenient
because they are taught that the School is the most' important
element of their lives. I have seen how full the school is of
helpers—continuing students who run the place.
Whilst the organisation's philosophy may be of a quasi-religious
type and the followers may never go out and do any harm, they are
dangerous because of their method. They believe that recruits
benefit most from the course, by having their personalities re-
arranged and 'improved'. This task is initiated secretly, although at
a later date the student always agrees that what happened was for
the best. He has no choice: they all believe that it is for the best.
The only reason why I did not go to the second lecture is that I
described the course to some friends. They were rather impressed
by my description, but another overheard our discussion and
enquired about the name of the school. He told me about the real
nature of the course which I was so proud to be attending. I did not
want to believe him: the people there were so pleasant. Yes, he
replied, that was why he stayed for a year. His teachers pestered
him to come back when he left, though the 'treatment' had only
failed for his group because he became a trouble-maker after
becoming suspicious. The staff are so pleasant that they never
react strongly, even if you tell them that they are in a Mooney-like
cult. They wiil try to convince you that it isn't so, which is what you
prefer to believe anyway.
THE MOONIES
Well, despite being warned byjust about everybody, last week I was
picked up by a Moonie. I had a few hours to kill before the Clint
Eastwood party and was wandering very much aimlessly past Mech
Eng. Fatal! A sweet and quite innocent looking Japanese girl sidled
up to me with a few questions. New from the Orient she was ever so
interested in learning about English students. Her simple aim in life
was to become a perfect person. What an appeal to my vanity! She
then asked me over to see her friends.
I had told her I must leave promptly at 7:00pm so I was rushed
upstairs to watch a lecture on video. Had I waited for the live
version the psychological pampering might have kept me spell-
bound. The title flashed on "The Divine Principle" by the Rev
Moon.
The Divine Principle offered apparent perfection. All through
history, it began, religion had been advancing. From Adam and Eve
to Moses and the stone tablets. From the commandments to
Jesus. Well now the Rav Moon has appeared as the progression on
from Jesus. Take the step and follow Moon and your character
would reach perfection.
The first video lecture, as an introduction to the cult, offers an all
too simple route to success. The reality though is a life of devotion
to Moon. You no longer think for yourself as your mind becomes
trapped and the Moonies milk you dry.
After the video it was question time. The Japanese girl and I sat
downstairs and talked about famine and world hunger. She had an
answer to all my questions. On a slightly different level though, was
how comfortable and relaxed I was made to feel. The Japanese girl
addressed me always by my first name and was intently interested
in me. I was made to feel important. There was no group. The
Japanese girl was there to talk to me and me alone. This above all
else is their trick.
Perhaps the reason established
religions are so very critical of
cults is that they see them as
rivals. The fact that the hundreds
of cults that have sprung up in the
past twenty or thirty years are so
popular indicates the failure of
established religions to commu-
nicate with the public, especially
the young.
The new religions certainly
fulfil a need. The grassroots
people involved with them are kind
and sincere and feel they have
• something important to offer.
However it is the motives ofsome
of the people running the organis-
ations that are a cause for
concern. These people are very
devious, peddling religion in con-
venient, novel pacakages and
making a lot ofmoneyfrom it. Be
wary of religions that are secret or
want your money or won't let you
out, becuase they aren't after your
mental and spiritual develop-
ment-ihey are after you!
Page 10 Friday, October 21, 1983\ Page 11

