Clubs
DebSoc
"I his Tuesday (25 Oct) we are organising a
debate with the Department of Humanities
on the motion: 'This House supports Uni-
lateral Nuclear Disarmament for Britian'.
Proposing the motion is the television lec-
turer Dr Nicholas Humphrey with one of
CND's biggest critics—Winston Churchill—
opposing. By avoiding the use of speakers
from both the major political parties we hope
to avoid a party political slanging match and
look forward to a more purposeful and con-
sidered debate on the actual issue. The event
is open to anyone and is in Mech Eng 220
starting at 1:00pm.
The debate will provide you with an oppor-
tunity to make your opinion, and criticisms of
the main speeches known as vou will be given
1
an opportunity to make a short speech from
the floor, which the speakers can reply to in
their summing up. If you feel at all strongly
on this issue, whatever your opinion your
contribution will be welco ne. I hope to both
see you and hear from you on Tuesday.
Nick Shack lev
Liberal Club
Where will you be on 22 October? Instead of
sleeping off the (revelry?) of the past week,
why not support Liberal C N D and join us at
the National Liberal Club. 1 Whitehall Place
at l():00am Saturday morning.
Due to a last minute postponement.
Michael Meadowcroft M P for Leeds West
and prolific author will now be speaking at
1:00pm on Wednesday 26 October. Come-
along to Huxley 139 and find out why liberal-
ism is the only radical alternative. Everyone
welcome.
JSoc
This year looks like being even more success-
ful than last as far as J-Soc membership is
concerned. Our progressive events are
attracting people who would not consider
coming near a religious society. Our fairly
informal Friday night meals are proving im-
mensely popular. Incidentally, our next one is
next Friday. Meet Beit Arch 6:00pm. Please
do not be afraid to turn up if you have not
been to one before, whichever year you are in,
there is nothing compelling you to stay if you
do not like it.
At the other end of the spectrum, our
discussions with Rabbi Telener have been
very enthusiastically attended, and offer an
excellent opportunity for the less enlightened
of us to 'improve' ourselves. If you do not yet
know about our Kosher lunch facility, then
please, please, please drop me a note, or come
to our Friday night meal meeting place, or
contact any J-Soc member. The lunches are
very good value, and the atmosphere is pleas-
ant and relaxed. We might even condescend
to talk to you, and introduce you to other J-
Soc members!
Jonathan Gerson
DoC2
Wonderful response to Tiddly-winks, thanks
to the 157 people who turned up. We raised
abemt £970 and our best collector was T
Burgess of Chem 1 with £38.87'/,.
Coming up soon are the Hustings U G M for
Hon Sec, 1:00pm Tuesday 25 October. Loca-
tion to be disclosed soon. Papers come down
at midnight tonight so if you're going to standi
do it now.
Also on Tuesday is the Maths Freshers'i
Dint, r, 7:00 for 7:30pm in-Sherfield Ante-
Room.
Once we have Jez back on the road, hope-
fully we will go pumping over the weekend so
come into the office or Jez garage if you want
to go along.
Next Friday we have the Life Sci Freshers'
Dinner and Party, all persons who have
bought tickets for any RCS freshers' dinner is
admitted free to the party which is from about
10:30pmm onwards in the JCR.
Tickets for the Life Sci Dinner are on sale
until Thursday. See any officer or your Dep
Rep to get yours.
There is a Broadsheet being produced on
Wednesday and as usual any help/articles
will be gratefully received.
There is also a RCS Ents comm meeting on
Thursday at 1:00pm above Southside Bar.
See ya all.
Dave
Bookshop News
As most of you are aware a small number of your lecturers do not advise me of their
recommended titles until term has actually started. As you can imagine this does create
problems. Where possible, we do collect from trade counters or phone orders through.
But there are still a number of publishers who insist we go through the normal
channels, which means two or three weeks for delivery. So, please bear with us. We are
trying our hardest. Until we get complete co-operation with all concerned, this problem
will remain with us.
Due to our small number of staff, there are times during our busy period when we
can have only one till working. So to those few who hate to queue try to use the shop
when it's not so busy.
Best of Books
Happy to Fly — Ann Welch, John Murray £10.50
Shame — Salman Rushdie, Jonathan Cape £7.95
Leila - J P Donleavy, Allen Lane £8.95
The Adventurous Gardener — Christopher Lloyd, Allen Lane £9.95
Kids and Computers — Eugene Galanter, Kingfisher £5.95
Dictionary of food and drink — Longman £3.95
Contradictory quotations - Longman £3.95
Barbecues — Judy Ridgway, Ward Lock £3.50
Meat Pies & Puddings — Anne Chamberlain, Foulsham £1.95
The Best Wine Recipes — Bill Crabtree, Foulsham £1.95
The Scottish Cookbook — Shelagh Macrae, Foulsham £1.95
Graffitti 4 — Roger Kilroy, Corgi £1.25
The First Cuckoo — Kenneth Gregory, Allen & Unwin £2.95
Amazing Times — Stephen Winkworth, Allen & Unwin £2.95
The Good Ridge Guide — David Edwards, Junction Books £5.95
Lazarus Lamb — Ralph Edney, Pluto £2.95
Servant of the Shogun — Richard Tames, Norbury £2.75
Touch the Devil — Jack Higgins, Pan £1.75
Double Jeopardy — Colin Forbes, Pan £1.75
While Gold Welder — Stephen Donaldson, Fontana £2.50
Guardians of the Prince — Reginald Mill, Fontana £1.75
Goodbye Mickey Mouse — Len Deighton, Granada £1.95
Family Trade — James Carroll, Fontana £1.95
Intercom Conspiracy — Eric Ambler, Fontana £1.50
Marco Polo if you can — William F Buckley Jr, Penguin £1.75
Lord Valentines Castle — Robert Silverberg, Pan £1.95
Nightwork — Irwin Shaw, Pan £1.95
Lands of Never — Ed Maxim Jakubowski, Unicorn £2.50
Saigon — Anthony Grey, Pan £2.50
As most of you know, I now manage the Imperial College Sportshop. Initially we
will be open 10:00am to 4:00pm. If the demand is there, we will look into the possibility
of opening longer hours. Hopefully in the near future we will have a proper illuminated
sign, another window onto the Walkway, plus more shelf space. If you want any item
of sports gear, let us know. Then we can at least try and get it.
Now in stock: Hooded sweatshirts, squash balls, squash rackets.
Roy Hicks
FELIX Friday, October 21, 1983 Page 13

