STOIC
Welcome back viewers. Although our col-
umn disappeared down a wormhole in time
last week, we have now found the fault and
can resume our usual service. Those who
haven't been beating up the FELIX Editor
have produced, obtained or been paid to
dispose of two more programmes next week;
on Tuesday a feature on Doctor Who, and on
Thursday another edition of News-Break.
And if you've had a sudden urge to embarrass
yourself on video tape or discovered that you
are a second Steven Spielberg—STOIC
would like to know; drop into the studio
Tuesday or Thursday lunchtime. or Wednes-
day afternoon, or phone internal 2637. Re-
member STOIC—you don't have to take
your clothes off to enjoy it (although I've
heard it helps).
ICR
Severe apologies from the management ot
this organisation (someone called it that
when this place started) for the lack of pro-
graming on Saturday evening. This was due
to he of the white jeans blowing up our mixer.
However, you will be glad to hear that a fan-
tastic programme (yet more grovelling!) in-
cluding unadvertised members of the FELIX
staff, will be rebroadcast tonight at 8:00pm.
Meanwhile, back at the Ranch, we're busy
recording taped jingles, so if your society
needs a good plug, we've done them for soci-
"The downs rolled gently into a faded
green sea of oak and the whiteness of the
chalk seemed to be reflected in the sky.
Julia paused on the crest of the hill and
looked down on the wreckage that
seemed to lie at the focus of the valley. A
thin taper of smoke wove up through the
stagnant air and dissolved into the empty
blueness.
Carefully she worked her way down
the grassy slope and approached the torn
metal remains of the ancient spacecraft.
Petals of titanium rippled in the heat as
Julia skirted the white crator and entered
the shadow of the main engine thrusters.
Something, dressed in a helmetted white
suit, lay among the coiled pipes, cables
and tubes. She knelt beside the figure
and touched the blood smeared face.
Strange, the figure had stubble on its
face, and on opening the white suit, no
breasts? What a strange mutation Julia
thought. She continued to remove the
suit "
Not continued in Section i0, the alter-
native science fiction magazine of
Imperial College, coming out soon, but
loads of other stuff is!
The Martian Commuter
eties as varied as Wellsoc and .Judo Club.
Also if you want to do an instant What's
On any time of'theday or night, why not drop
down to our studios and promote your pro-
duct.
See you soon. Bags of Love.
I'clf-\-/>i>{>\
Nightline
You've probably settled in to the swing of
College life by now, and are starting to look
around for things you want to do. No matter
where your interests lie. Nightline can pro-
vide information on places to go, things to do,
as well as keeping up-to-date lists of gigs and
discos in West London colleges. In case
things go wrong, we also provide information
such as your nearest local hospital, late night
chemists and your nearest V D clinic.
If you haven't settled in properly, if you're
still bemused by it all, or if you're finding that
work is getting on top of you, then give us a
ring or drop in—we're willing to chat to you
at all times, and listen to your worries.
If you would like to become a volunteer,
you're not too late—just phone or drop in to
arrange a time convenient to us both to begin
your training.
There's always a male and female volunteer
on between 6:00pm and 8:00am so phone us
on 581 2468 or drop in to the basement of 9
Princes Gardens.
Enjoy yourselves.
Chris Brannick
Nightline Director
Within 3years
a £50million businesscoul
depend uponyournext mo
C OME ON I Hi: PROC TER & GAMBLE MARKETING
COURSE AND DISCOVER THE EXCITING WORLD
OECONSL MER MARKETING
Procter &. Gamble arc widely regarded as one of the
inventors of modern marketing. One ofP&G's major
contributions has been to create the role of Brand
Manager - the person responsible for managing the
marketing of a major household brand. Within 3 years
with f&Ga graduate could become a Brand Manager
managing a business worth us much as £5(1 million.
lit give you a chance to find out more about this exciting
and challenging career PAG will be running a Marketing
Course from December lti-22 1983at the P&G Head
Office in Newcastle upon Tyne. The course which is
free will cover all the major areas of the Brand
Manager's responsibility Iincluding advertising,
consumer promotions, finance and media} and
there will be every opportunity to try out some
moves oj your own.
For.an application form ask at your Careers Service
or write to t lure llvnn. Procter A Gamble limited,
Newcastle upon Tyne NEW /telephone 06.12 H57I41J
Closing date for applications is November 4th IW? (« «

