Hello peoples, mainly of the female variety.
In case you don't know me I'm Gabrielle
Shields of Elec Eng 3, otherwise known as
Gabby, and I'm Ladies Sports Rep for IC.
This means that I am supposed to look after
ladies interests in the sporting world. My
first request is for any ladies who would like
to play football against Digby Stewart Col-
lege, strictly on a friendly basis, one Sunday
afternoon. Drop me a line if you're interested,
it should be good for a laugh.
Secondly, if any of you have any com-
plaints such as bad changing facilities, lack of
practice times, no opposition, let me know
and I'll see what I can do.
Bye for now.
Gabby
o c k e y
Old Merchant Tailors 3 IC lsts 0
Once again the Hockey Club set off to a far
flung corner of the empire. Thanks to a rather
hazy geographical knowledge of the Watford
area and some dubious organisation the team
arrived minus three players and their shirts.
The gallant eight who did arrive, defended for
about 25 minutes and managed to hold off a
near constant attack despite the force 8 gale
and driving rain. Just as OMT scored their
first goal, two of the missing players turned
up, and both Margaret and Matthew made
their .presences.
Throughout the remainder of thefirsthalf
and the second half, the game was very evenly
matched but OMT managed jto convert two
of their chances whilst IC were unable to
finish off their attacks successfully. Nick
Hope and Geoff Ayers both came very close
to scoring, but a combination of bad weather
and bad luck kept the ball out of the OMT
net. This report is not for the acrostic
amongst us. (Or far anyone else either!-Ed)
IC 2nds 3 Harrow Swans 0
A reformed 2nd XI arrived at Harlington in
drizzle, which soon developed into driving
rain and sleet. Despite this the 2nds played
some fine hockey throughout both halves,
resulting in a 1-0 lead at half time due to a deft
Chas Eldridge lob and quick execution by
Chris Akers. The second half pressure was
rewarded with another two good break-away
goals by Chris and Roger Roesink, to give a
hopefully not too rare win. The only flaw in
the team was perhaps the goalkeeper, who
picked the ball up outside his 'D', proving he
has difficulty keeping tack of where he is, let
alone the goal!
IC 3rd 2 Old Creightonians 2
Nine green bottles sitting on a wall,
Frozen to death out in the squall,
Waiting for the opposition nowhere to be
seen,
No need to mention that we were very keen.
Off to the bar to fill us with sap,
Help this report is absolutely —
We drew 2-2
(I agree!-Ed)
Basketball
The season starts in a couple of weeks, so
serious training must start now. Training
times are 5:30pm Mondays and 12:30pm
Thursdays in the Volleyball Court. (We hope
to obtain better facilities in the, near future for
league fixtures and training.)
We would also like to start a second team if
we have sufficient interest. Don't worry if
your standard of play isn't high, our coach
will soon put that right, and if you're a seven
foot tall American then we want to hear from
you!
Our performance in the League last year
was poor to say the least, the main problem
was lack of commitment from many of the
players. So there's plenty of room for im-
provement, and the Boss says we'll do better
with the right sort of team spirit.
Finally we may start a women's team to
participate in a league or just play friendlies if
the interest is there.
For more information about the basketball
club contact me via the letter-racks or turn up
next Monday.
Rifle &
Pistol
As usual the first few weeks of the year have
been very hectic for IC's top sporting club.
(If the Badminton Club is libelled again there'll
be trouble!-Ed)
We are still looking for new members, and
you are more than welcome if you have done
any target shooting before. For those of you
who were put off by the crowds on the first
Wednesday, the congestion is nowhere near
as bad now, so come back and have another
go.
This year's most promising newcomer
Gareth Jones is already beating members of
the A team, and club treasurer Steve Harrison
(contact via Elec Eng letter-racks) is fighting
hard to retain his place in the first team.
Gordon Bowser, Club Captain, has already
shot his first 'ton' this term, and looks set to
master the sport by emptying his bank ac-
count on more and more esoteric equipment.
Is there any limit to this man's madness?
The ICRPC Sloane Ranger pub crawl is
this Wednesday. Meet at the Sports Centre at
7:00pm for our tour of the Admiral Cod,
Australian and a few others to find out what
really matters in the Sloane cetnre of the
world.
On Sunday October 30 we have our first
Bisley trip to shoot full-bore rifle at 300 and
600 yards. Cost is approx £6 and very worth-
while.
Sport
gby
IC 10 Met D Div 6
For the team's first outing of the season,
Imperial College forced a rather hefty police
side. Their pack contained many a hundred-
weight of prime bacon with a front row whose
combined centre of gravity must have been
only inches from the ground. However the IC
team soon took command and with' adven-
turous rugby, tries were run in by John Davis
and Steve Philips. This new style approach
was not to everyone's satisfaction. Wingers
Neil Hargrove and Steve Craig complained of
getting too much ball and Charlie de Rohan
sorely missed his usual gentle stroll between
scrums. After the game the team all enjoyed
several cans of Tango before dispersing to the
College libraries to solve a few problem-
sheets
IC 2nds 3 Met Police A Div 28
We set off for the annual season-opening
fight with the police, who usually use this
student confrontation to get their own back
for all the hassles we cause them during the
rest of the year! Instead of the usual, older
and more lethargic outfit than ourselves, we
came across a large, fit and young side, which
was to lead to our downfall. We took the lead
with an early penalty, and led 3-0 until the last
20 minutes, but were never really on top.
Finally, size and weight took its toll, and they
ran in their points in the last quarter. Apart
from a blow that would have done a certain
PC Finch* proud, it was a clean game and a
promising start to the season.
Mark Hudson
*If this is libellous, since the case is being
heard at the moment, then please insert
Frank Bruno.
2nds vs QMC won 9-10
Shadows of bent old children hug the pus
strewn pavement. Noses kiss .the heavy scent
of musty tenements, looming tyrants in black
and brick poses of abandoned gaiety. The sun
sets and rises in five minute bursts of purple-
red glory, illuminating the crimson stars, and
the black moon festooned with paper
streamers.
Black uniformed giants stride rapidly up
and down the cats-eyes in the road, glaring
and winking knowingly at each other.
Meanwhile, at QMC, a shuttle flies over the
net. It is not returned. This appears to be the
reason for the hilarity described earlier, as the
now dormant shuttle signifies, in its own
quiet way, that the seconds have won and are
still unbeaten since 1981. Oh, I forgot, the
year is 3272.
PS: There is no Badminton practice tonight,
as the Volleyball Club have a match. Back to
normal next week, don't forget there's coach-
ing from 6:30 to 7:30 on all Fridays that we
have the court.
FELIXi I Friday, October 21, 1983 IPage 15

