•
Tiddlywinking
Congratulations are in order all round for the record
£2,555 raised on Saturday by tiddlywinking down Oxford
Street. I understand that Mencap are absolutely delighted
and are allowing us to use their collecting licence next
year. Well done to Sean Davis, Dave Parry and James
Benbow for persuading the Police and Mencap to let us
collect and to everyone who turned up on Saturday
despite the miserable weather.
If Rag is to continue successfully this year, the vacancy
of Rag Chairman needs to be filled. If anyone is interested
in the post they should see Sean Davis in the Union Office
Money
It would be worthwhile reading the Welfare article on
page 6 about rent and rate rebates. Everyone not living in
College owned accommodation (that includes the Head
Tenancies) is eligible for a rebate.
The system of rent rebates is very arbitary and con-
fused, the amount of money you can claim back seems to
vary considerably from branch to branch. Some branches
are very helpful and informative, other branches will try
and screw you so its well worth knowing where you stand
otherwise you may lose a lot of money.
Group Sex
' If John Yates, Emanual Woiski, J Clink, Gordon At-1
kinson, Idris Ul-Hague, Simon Lewis, Roland Fern,
Sooryakumaran, Jakubowicz and J P Luckett go to the
Union Office sometime Gaynor Lewis will make it worth
your while.
Careers
"There will be a special Careers FELIX next week to
coincide with the Careers Fair on the following
Wednesday. This means no letters, small ads, club articles1
for next week. However there will be a What's On page in«
next week's issue. .
Credits
Carolyn Aldred, Jon James, Sandip Ramasurami, Tim
Noyce, Heroic Hugh Southey, Diane Love, Chris Brannick,
Michael Newman, J Martin Taylor, Peter Rodgers, Dave
'on the ball' Rowe, Lynne James, John Scott, Dave Parry,
Adrian James, Brian Lloyd-Davis, James Chalmers, Steve
Brahn, Matt Fawcett, Carl Burgess and Nick Thexton
Pallab Ghosh
Mooneys Infiltrate Primelia College
I was down at Primelia College the other day and
went into one of the refectories for dinner. I was
about to tuck in when I heard an urgent whisper
beside me "Don't eat it!" I turned and saw a fright-
ened face. "Haven't you heard?" asked the owner of
the face. "Heard what?" I asked. "About the
Mooneys," he said, his face ashen with fear.
He went on to tell me, in hushed tones, how the
dreaded cult, the Mooneys, had infiltrated the refec-
tory at Primelia College. For those of you who don't
know, the Mooneys are a cult who are attempting to
kill off the human race by poisoning the food, and
are named after Victor Mooney, a name to make
even the strongest stomach turn.
I went into the kitchen to investigate and found the
chef, Sam O'Nella, lying among some empty bottles,
he was rather the worse for wear, so I propped him
up and attempted to get the full story from him while
he was drunk.
"We have five cooks," he said. "Abdul, Zorba,
Pedro, Juan and only one woman, namely Donna
Kebab. Each one is assigned a certain meal to ruin
each day. I'll tell you what today's tasks were:
Abdul ruined the moussaka if Zorba ruined the
lasagne. If Juan ruined the moussaka, then Zorba
didn't spoil the beef mexican. If Pedro spoiled the
beef mexican and Juan spoiled the chicken portu-
gaise, then Donna marred the beef mexican. If Abdul
spoiled the beef mexican and Zorba the chicken
portugaise, then Pedro didn't spoil the moussaka. If
Abdul spoiled the beef mexican and Zorba ruined
the moussaka, then Pedro spoiled the pizza. If Abdul
didn't ruin the moussaka or Juan did not ruin the
lasagne, then Donna ruined the pizza and Pedro did
not mar the chicken portugaise." At that point Sam
fell off his chair and dozed again among his empty
bottles. However, I learned that, in spite of his condi-
tion, everything Sam had told me was true.
So, who spoiled what?
Good luck, everyone.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the FELIX
Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday please. £5 from
Mend-a-Bike for randomly selected winning entry.
Last Week's Solution
Well, I warned you it was hard! Don't feel dismayed if
you failed to get 82 from the digits and dots given;
that puzzle was first set in 1882 by a man called Sam
Loyd, one of the greatest puzzlists who ever lived. He
issued that puzzle as a competition with $1,000 as
the prize, and out of several million answers, only
two were found to be correct. I find that quite aston-
ishing, as there aren't that many permutations and
with such an incentive ($1,000 was a fortune then) I
would have expected more than just two correct
answers. I suppose -tfcat just shows you how stupid
Americans are!
Well, you've outdone the original entrants! I've had eight
correct solutions and the randomly selected winner
was R Tan of Chem Eng 3. If you do the puzzle in groups,
please only hand in one solution, and don't hand in two
solutions on scraps of paper that can be matched up,
as someone has this week. Congratulations to all
those who got it right.
The way to get 82 is 80.97+.5+.46=82
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rd, SW
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSouthevCopyrightFELIXl983

