Welfare B H H H H B
Introduction to
Student Services
Working on the premise that you are liable to forget everything
you read in the first weeks of term we thought we would delay
our introductory blurb until the initial shock had subsided and
some kind of sanity had returned to the Campus. So here is a
delayed 'welcome' both to new students and returning ones.
Student Services is based on the Northside of Princes Gdns,
at number 15, next door to the Health Centre. The office
comprises of a residence office and a welfare centre.
On the residence side, we look after all the Halls of Resi-
dence, allocating places and, of course, sending out bills. We
also have a private sector accommodation service maintaining
lists of private addresses, nearby hostels and hotels, and a
guide to some of the local accommodation agencies. We period-
ically produce two accommodation guides, one regarding Col-
lege accommodation, the other private accommodation—to
help you through the maze of application procedures and
tenancy agreements.
On the welfare side, we are able to offer legal advice on any
difficulties you encounter during your time here, as well as
providing information and help with social security benefits,
covenants, grants, tenancy problems, insurance, etc, etc. We
also maintain comprehensive stocks of leaflets on everything
from cycle insurance to VD.
The all-important point to remember about a welfare office
is that it is only any good if you are prepared to use it. Please
don't fall into the trap of believing that you have to let a
situation reach crisis point before you seek help, when an early
visit to Student Services could prevent the crisis arising. We are
always happy to see people who are just interested in finding
out more and with today's complex network of laws and
benefits it is always an advantage to be informed of your rights
and entitlements in advance.
We hope to see you soon!
Michael Arthur and Karen Stott
Student Services
MONEY!
How to Claim Your Rent & Rate Rebates
A l the beginning <
>
l A|»i il I!1
''-.1
.1 u*;»
Housing Brniiit M'IleuH i anir uiu»oij-
eration a (Toss tuc I K . 1 In- -chenic
ha- replaced ihe old t-i uii| >l u a let! m i l
and r;tlc rebate -chenic ami removed
I rvs|tonsil>iiii> lot" meeting housing
cn-l- |ni lho-e oil - U pplt'U 1
C
I
1
1 a I \
uncni|)Io\ nienl bench) lioin the
I ) H S S in the local, authorities.
T i l l ' -chenic introduced I wo new
l \ pes ol housing• ben el it and a bureau-
cratic nightmare that will keep town
halls in (iirnit >il it ir m< mi lis.
1. Certified Housing Benefit
This benefit meets die housing rosls til
I hose receiving siij)plenienl;u y or
u neii i plo\ ii lent benelil and is I lie: e-
lore not applicable to students tin
giants in lei m lime. It i - the benellt
most likelv to be of use to students
during the Christmas and basier
vacations and lor that reason I -hall
cover I lie rules and regit la I ions
sui rounding this benellt in another
1 L L I X article nearer Christina-.
2. Standard Housing Benefit
T i n - replace- the old rent and rale
allowance -theme and pro\ ides help
wit 11 housing eo-ts tor those nut
receiving supplemental \ or unem-
pluvmcnl benefit. I nilcr the new
rcgulal ions both -indents in pnv alt1
ren led accommodat ion inel tiding
Iho-e occtipv ing under a licence
\\ifi eellielll and those in ( '(»l Ii "H"'
owned Hal- and hall- ol n-idener are
eligible to appl\ . I nloi lull.Mi l \ lot
tho-e in 1(1 Halls, -in* i ' \ o m rale* aie
paid b\ the I ni\er-it\ (i ran is ('oni-
millee villi are not eligible liii a rait'
allowance and since a large propor-
tion ol Mini lota I rent I igure-
eompi i-e ol charges lor heating
light ing. eooking and hot water
which arc ""/ eligible lor a rebate. \ our
chance- ol gel t ing an\ money back ai e
minima].
How to claim standard housing
benefit
Application lorni- are available Irom
t he Tow n H a l l ol t he borough m
which you live, or lor some local
borough- from Student S e n ice-,
("latins cannot be backdated and
therefore only start Irom the dale on
which the housing authority receive a
written application completed appli-
cation lorin from you. O n c e die
housing author it \ are ill receipt ol
\ our lorms 1
1 it \ ma\ a-k lor ally
evidence relating to your c l a i m which
they deem neeessat v ant I ii 1 hex do not
receive such evidence within -ix weeks
ol their request thev will deem \ o u r
claim withdrawn. I n save tunc \ o u
should send a copv ol your grant
not il teal ion and some prool ol rent
rent book receipts letter h " i i i vour
landloid y ilh vour application.
How to Calculate Your Allowance
This can onlv be a rough guide as the
additions and -iiblract ion- ma\ be
circumstances.
a \Vork out vour needs allowance.
b \ \ oik out vt rim gro— weekly income.
L o n d o n disregard /.!°.4.>.
c W o r k out eligible weckK rent and
filiations are complicate*.!
natle according to an
single person
couple
each depentlani ehil
-Indent in term timt
and Ituiher
individual -
I I 1.9(1
HI a granl in
Examples
Single undergraduate student on L o n d o n rate oi grant living
accommodation paving rent excluding healing, lighting
water and /a rale- excluding water rates per week.
a Needs allow a i ice will be / 4a.0;>.
b Cross wccklv ineonie -/T>9.29 basic L o n d o n graul
- 19.45 siutlent term lime
)i i\ ale rented
•king and hot
lisrt
I ( :al< iiiale ihe rebate allowance
i il" income - X A rebate allowance
ii II' income is less than \ A —
iii It ineonie is more than X A
Warning to Overseas Students
A p p l y i n g lor rent and rate rebates is
and is ihcrclorc in contravention o!
A l t h o u g h applications are not Irequc
would be in serious trouble.
rate- deduct anv money paid lor water
rales, heating, lighting, cooking
and hoi water.
lor a -Indent in term time on a
granl in L o n d o n deduct £\*).45.
work on! il the weekU income is
more or less, than the needs
allowance N A .
r. tiO"o weekly rales and (S0°o eligible
weekly rent.
Kates — (J0"o weekly rales and 8"« ol
dillereiuc between income and X A .
Rent — l>0"„ eligible weekly rem and
lf)"fi ol (lillerenee between income and
N A .
Rates — (i()"o weekly rales minus T'u of
dillerentc between ineonie and X A .
R e m — ()0"n eligible weekly rent minus
%W difference between income and
X A .
considered to be recourse to nubile funds
vour-conditions ol stay in l'ns count rV.
nllv checketl. il vou were found out von
WeekK ratt
Eligible we.
d Calc
kK it
- 19.45
-1 5.35
sludenl tleduction
fibre
cekK
ible
ate-
eckk i
- bclvw come and X A
Page 6| iFriday, October 21, 1983
bale allowance
Income i - less than N A thei
Rales rebate ±£\ .8(1 CO"., w
income and X
Rent a Mow ante -/.'a.aa . h0"„ eli
+ 0.K0 25",, tlit
=£4.13
T O T A L R K B A ' F K A L L O W A X C K - $M - |"4.l:i - flUti.
X B : Where (he weekK rent int 'hides rates, water rates, gas and eleetrieiiv but no
amount is specified, the housing authority will deduct an amount "iairlv attri-
butable'. In practice this is likely to mean calculating rates as anything up to 25'«
of ihe total rent figure and deducting up to /7.95 il all gas and electricity is
included in rent figures.
Conclusion
This scheme is still relatively new and w e have ycl to see how generously it will be
applied by dilterenl authorities. The main problem with it is that il can take
many months for authorities to assess and pay rebates.
Student Services would like to monitor the operation ol the scheme so il von
make an application (successful or unsuccessful) please call into our oil ice to let us
know the result It won't lake you long and it could be a great help toothers in the
future. At the same lime if von have anv queries or dillicultics or want to appeal
against a decision then call into the Student Services Oi'licc any weekday
between 9:30am and (i:0()pm and I w ill be happy to help you.
• • H H H H B H B I B H B i FELIX

