4 Music Reviews
Paw
Dragline
Paw, as you might guess from the opening riffs
on Dragline, are American and follow in a
similar vein to metal acts like Soundgarden and
Alice in Chains. The result is that songs often
lose any melody to burst of distortion, 'One
More Bottle' being one example.
It is said that beneath the gruff exterior,
Paw's songs are about deep emotional problems
'Jessie' is about losing the family dog and
'Sleeping Bag' a near death experience. Still
most of the time Mark Hennessy could be
singing about dog biscuits for all you can hear.
The highlight is the current single 'Couldn't
Know', where the song isn't overcharged with
too much power and allow the melody to flow.
Bratt Anderson
Released on A&M.
Mary Black
The Holy Ground
The Holy Ground is the latest album release
from soloist Mary Black. It owes a great deal to
Mary's Irish background, but it is not just
another folk album.
Mary Black is one of the best known
musicians to be produced from Ireland for some
time. She is reputedly the fastest selling female
artist in her home country and is well
established in the UK.
This album has no consistent style, but this is
no bad thing. Traditional instruments are
complimented by saxophone and synthesiser.
My initial reaction to this was uncertainty; but
the mix works surprisingly well. The real
strength of the music is in the warmth and
strength of the vocals. The harmonies are truly
beautiful. Oh, and there are some words - more
about them later.
There are twelve tracks on this album. And
no two sound alike. Some have a traditional feel
whilst others have an upbeat jazz or blues
tempo. 'When the morning comes' provides a
lively introduction to the album. It demonstrates
the compatibility of modern instruments;
soprano sax, keyboards and acoustic guitar,
with traditional fiddle, percussion and voice.
Nearly every track has a different writer and
this is matched by changes in musical
interpretations.
You could leave The Holy Ground playing in
the background and only notice when it ends. I
did the first time. This would however, be a
waste of the wealth of rich sounds.
The Holy Ground is an album that I enjoyed
more each time Listened to it. The album can
only grow on you more each time you listen to
the lyrics.
Dick
Released on Grapevine.
Black Crowes
Who Killed that Bird
out on your Window sill
... The Movie
And so we get a tour video, oh joy. 83 minutes
full with 18 tracks, as comprehensive as you
would desire of any band. Actually the Crowes
make a good show of it. The selection is shown
in various stages of undress: Live, promo
videos, hand-held shaking shots, each as rugged
and carefree as the band itself. Intros vanish
into Chris in interviews, or Chris swaying like
the breeze or even Chris doing whatever else
you do as a deity. It's pretty much his show.
Apart from all the songs, there's some
'excellent' footage of extended interviews.
Fifty ways to ask the same question: "Do you
fight with your brother" etc. Chris wisecracks
his way out of most situations with a raised
eyebrow of irony. "Yes viewer this is what I
have to put up with."
It ends with 'Sting Me' with all the crazed
and plain strange audience in view and more
Chris, the man who inhales. Surprisingly he
comes across as one of the sanest frontmen in
America today, at least there's no tortured
Messiah- hood around. He enjoys himself and
the Crowes kick and smoke pretty much
whatever they want. So far they've got away
with it.
Tintin
The Poppies
Honeybee
If Danny Wilson had the 'Second Summer of
Love', The Poppies have made the running for
number 3. Honeybee is psychedelia (or a they
say Popadelia) for the 90's. Titles like 'Love
Trippin'/Wondering' and 'Another Groove' are
evidence enough.
Although today's flowerchildren have a
different role, the first 60's generation non-
inhaler is presently hashing up the free world
from the White House and the mind expanding
horizons of little tablets are seen in a more
dubious light. So enter the environment as a
focus; seen in 'La De Da' and 'Mother Groove'.
' A mushroom clouds my thoughts today' -
it's nicely done. Worldwide peace is also
encompassed aka Pepsi/Coke. Everyone's song
is in about six languages, which renders it
somewhat mystifying.
And whilst the second side collapses like the
English middle batting order, the first is proof
of a firm grasp of pop sensitivity. Even a Lou
Reed cover 'All Tomorrow's Parties' is quietly
underplayed with a floating Rickenbacker. The
opening two tracks, 'She is Revolution' and
'That's What We'll Do' are the best. Clever
hooks and well structured vocal overlays.
Yes I could be back there at Woodstock and
the Isle of Wight. Jimi, Janis and Tim, where
did you go?
Tintin
Released on WEA.
l i P I f l l i l l S ^
Squeeze
3rd Rail
For any band to lose a member with the
qualities of the mighty, mighty Jools Holland
might be considered careless. Still post their
Greatest Hits album, Squeeze are still producing
records of pop squeaky cleanness. All the loose
ends have been nipped and tucked carefully into
place, the melodies are bright, energetic and
yes, this is an alright single and I hate myself
for saying it. The album's worth would
probably overpower you, like drowning in
syrup.
The b-side is a Cool for Cats medley. A
more shaky advertisement for their forthcoming
tour you'd have difficulty in finding.
Tintin
Released on A&M.
We need cinema, theatre, music and book reviewers

