Cinema and Theatre Reviews 5
this is that the film is fundamentally flawed by
its script. Part of this is because the characters
aren't as in-depth as they need to be for this sort
of suspense and a lot of the time you just don't
really care.
Apparently the film is meant to 'shock' the
audience by exploring the single most secret
ipijir
fantasy everyone has but won't discuss:
voyeurism, but it never even occurs that you're
meant to be thinking about it. The most
surprising thing about the film is that after all of
the clips on the UB40 video, you forget that the
film is actually in colour.
Penguin
Sliver
A thriller set in a lofty narrow apartment
building that New Yorkers call a 'Sliver', where
a succession of mysterious deaths have
occurred. Carly 'recently ended an unhappy
marriage' Norris (Sharon Stone), has just
moved in and soon finds herself the attention of
two of her neighbours: Zeke 'wealthy young
bachelor' Hawkins (William Baldwin) and Jack
'crime writer investigating deaths' Landsford
(Tom Berenger). Of course Carly gets entangled
emotionally while the suspense builds as to
whether either neighbour is involved in the
deaths.
To add to the great cast and director (all
undoubtedly good in their own rights), the film
is well paced and the cinematography is of a
high standard, which is essential for a movie
dealing with both suspense through
claustrophobia and the use of video monitoring
equipment.
This film would love to be a 'great' film, and
by all rights it should be. The suspense is by no
means that gripping and it definitely won't have
you on the edge of your seats. The reason for
Rising Sun
A murder mystery set against the backdrop of
the US/Japan business competition. Detective
Web Smith (Wesley Snipes) is 'placed' with the
mysterious John Conner (Sean Connery) who
informs and instructs Smith in the ways of
Japanese business. Conner takes the role of
'Sem-pi' (instructor) to Smith's ' C o - h i '
(student), as they tread the careful line between
investigation and Japanese etiquette.
The pairing of Connery and Snipes is great
and shouldn't be missed. If anything, Snipes is
overshadowed by the attention lavished on
Connery's character, which is a shame because
most of the humour comes from Snipes, and
some of these are almost lost due to not caring
enough about Snipe's character.
One of the most notable things about the
film is that they don't make a song and dance
about it being based on Michael (Jurassic Park)
Crichton novel.
Even the complementary 'played quietly in
the room next door for a couple of seconds so
we can put it one the soundtrack' song has
relevance. Perhaps the best commendation of
the film is that it also stars Harvey Keitel, who
has never appeared in a bad movie.
Penguin
Under the Stars
Pam Ferris (Ma Larkin in Darling Buds) and
Connie Booth (Fawlty Towers) steal the show
in a play about a life long understudy and a
failing actress. Both characters are misfits and
provide a comical and slightly disturbing
insight to the back stage of a theatre. As they
rehearse, you see that both of them have
opposing views on acting. They bitch, argue a
bit and know that beneath the smiles for the
press and on stage, they would both love to
have the limelight with the other shamed into
never working again.
There are splendid performances from
everyone else. Penny Morrell is worth noting,
as well as Tyler Butterworth for his part as a
put upon assistant. The voice over parts of June
Whitfield and Patricia Routledge are highly
unlikely choices for their roles but nevertheless
good. They all add to the essence of the play,
especially since it is in a fringe theatre.
The production brings the back stage to life
and is worth seeing to learn more about the
theatre, without spending three years at RADA.
Phil
Greenwich Theatre, Charing Cross Tube.
Until End of August.
Bish Bash Bosh
Club
Quite how this show got its name is subject to
doubt. It is a series of satirical sketches, some
topical (like John Major pretending to be
Winston Churchill) but, in a week when MPs
were threatened with being sent home if they
did not play ball, it seemed somewhat tame!
The show was funny, but only by the brute
force of having five very talented people on
stage; what they were lacking was a really good
script. Many of the sketches started well but
ended so quickly that some of the audience had
trouble maintaining their concentration. Where
they did score highly was their songs. With a a
pianist providing excellent accompaniment they
parodied various styles from Whitney Houston
to Rogers and Hammerstein.
Overall, the show was enjoyable, but with its
current script it would be more suitable to a
Silly Season replacement for Radio 4's Week
Ending than performance on stage.
Ostrogoth
Nelley's Night Spot, Willesden Green tube)
Tickets: £4 (cone £3) + £1 membership
Come into Felix and see what we've got available to review

