Feature
Student Union Reform
Andy Wensley, Imperial College Union President, gives his personal view on
the government's Student Union Reform and its implications.
Is it fine to give students Ovaltine for tea but not
for them to campaign against drug abuse? How
does one you distinguish between political and
beneficial activities?
Such a question arose in the parliamentary
debate on student union reform. These reforms
could drastically alter life in further education
establishments. But what are they and what
implications do they have for the students?
The Government's View
The current government has long been
committed to trade union reform. Trade unions
work as 'closed shops' where you have no
choice as to whether you join. This principle is
driving the current student union reforms; you
should have the choice as to whether you join.
The government, in their words, aims to give
students the power to choose what involvement
they want. Simultaneously they believe that tax
payers should not be expected to fund student
union activities that are unaccountable, either
financially or democratically, or which
represent essentially political activities. In the
parliamentary statement on the reform, the
government stressed that they must protect
students, as well as their societies, from
victimisation.
The Reform
The reform would take place in three parts:
(i) It would limit the purposes for which an
institution can pass public sources money
to its student union. Students would have
access to a 'core' of campus services. The
parent institution could support these with
public funds. A l l other union activities
would be funded on a voluntary opt-in
basis.
(ii) Campus unions could not use public funds
to affiliate to national campaigning
organisations, such as the National Union
of Students (NUS). If they wished to
affiliate to such an organisation, they
would have to be funded through private
sources.
(iii) Thirdly, the reform aims to make student
unions more accountable and fully
representative. This would involve
financial and democratic accountability
and the development of codes of practice
governing campus union behaviour.
Core Campus Services
The government has defined these as being:
•Internal Representation
•Sport
•Welfare
•Catering
Internal Representation
This would include a seat on the Governing
Body and on academic, residential and financial
committees. Public money could fund:
(i) a proportion of the salaries of elected
sabbaticals involved in these affairs.
(ii) the conduct of elections of sabbatical and
non-sabbatical officers
(iii) the elections of non-union internal
representatives
(iv) the preparation of welfare information.
Sports
A large part of a student union budget is
currently allocated to sports clubs. In the
Government's words, further and higher
education establishments are likely to wish to
include sporting services to be supported with
public funds. With this in mind, sport has been
defined as a core service, enabling salaries of
coaches and groundsmen to be paid.
Welfare
This covers many areas including counselling,
help for disabled students, accommodation,
legal advice and provision for women students
with rape crisis centres and safe late night travel.
Induction to university life through Freshers'
Week, along with other social events, would be
covered, along with support for specific student
groups, such as part-time, mature and overseas
students. Help for these groups would take the
form of social events and advice services.
Catering
Most campus unions operate fast food services.
These would be accepted as falling within core
activities.
The aims of the reform
Apart from the core definitions, the other two
parts of the reform are clear in their aims.
The second part aims to stop public money
being used for affiliation to campaigning
bodies. The third part is more complicated.
Financial accountability is gained by
monitoring the use of public funds. Charges
would become dependant on an whether activity
or service is core or non-core. In the case when
it straddles both areas, a proportional amount
would be charged.
Democratic accountability would ensure that
all campus unions have constitutions,
democratic structures along with properly
conducted elections. Elections themselves
would have a minimum quoracy rate of 33%
and candidates must not stand politically.
How does this affect clubs and societies?
Immediately it can be seen that any club or
society that is not sporting would be in trouble.
But what is a sporting club?
Traditional sports, such as rugby, hockey and
rowing, would be core services. But what about
all the others? Imperial College Union has some
155 clubs. We spend 43% of our block grant on
them, the highest percentage in the country.
Every non-sporting club is currently a non-
core activity. To put it bluntly, we could fund
our rowing teams but not our orchestra. There
would exist a provision to fund our overseas
clubs under the welfare umbrella, but their
activities may be curtailed. Other clubs facing
funding cuts are the political clubs.
Additional costs
A possibly more important implication of this
reform is the cost of a core and non-core
system. Currently, Imperial College Union,
funds sabbatical and staff costs from a single
budget. With a core and non-core funding
system, a cost, such as a wage, is charged
proportionally to the relevant areas. This cross
charging involves more work and cost for
administrative and financial sections. These
costs have been kept as low as is possible in the
past, since we believe that as much of Imperial
College Union's block grant should go to
students as is possible.
What is the Union doing?
Talks with the government, with College and
with other student unions, including the NUS,
have been taking place. What we need now is
input from students, especially postgraduates.
Look out for meetings in your departments.
Over the next few weeks, Postgraduate Group meetings will be
held in departments to get student views on this reform.
If you have any questions, the sabbaticals in the
Union Office will be glad to help you.
See back page for a photo feature on Expo '93

