ENEWS:
Potty Time at Wellsoc
Ex-Goon Michael Bentine surfaced at Wellsoc's second event on
Tuesday. Citing Nazi mind-control, palmistry and childhood
encounters, he exhorted members to consider his unusual
obsession with the paranormal.
Despite his serious subject he did his Potty voices and found
time to plug his books.
Professor Eric Laithwaite was in the Chair.
D o o b M W o d e n i
If the first meeting of the Union
Council on Monday is anything
to go by this year's Union
Officers are a remarkably
r e t i c e n t l o t . C o u n c i l is
responsible for the management
of the Union, but unfortunately
many of its members seem to take
the attitude 'let's get it over with
as quickly as possible'. A n d of
course asking any awkward
questions about how the
sabbaticals are doing their jobs
increases the length of time
before the reluctant hacks can
return to the bar/their problem
sheets — hence very few tend to
get asked. In fact, if it weren't for
a small group of such egotistical
self-publicists as Jo 'Hippo'
Claybrain, Hugh Southey, J
Martin Taylor and Mike Stuart
then there wouldn't be much
point in holding meetings at all.
So to the other thirty-odd
members of Council — you
weren't elected to keep your
mouths shut, there must be some
things you or those you represent
aren't happy about in the Union.
Many people may not be aware
how much the College depends
on 'borrowed' supermarket
trolleys to transport supplies
around the campus. F E L I X is
particularly vulnerable in this
respect — an unexpected trolley-
raid on Thursday evening would
make it virtually impossible to
distribute copies around College.
Fortunately Waitrose chose
Monday this week for their
lastest visit. A search revealed no
less than three Waitrose trolleys
on the premises, two of which
they removed empty. The third
was full of paper which F E L I X
staff protested they had no-where
else to put. Just to demonstrate
that they're not as ruthless as
they're made out to be the
Waitrose men retreated without
the full trolley, only to return in
half an hour with a Sainsbury's
trolley they had 'borrowed' from
their rivals. They then proceeded
to transfer the paper from their
trolley into the Sainsburys one,
after which they left with their
now empty trolley.
Your Future in Instrument Design
Datron Instruments Ltd is setting the pace in the design of
high technology test instruments — these currently include
Digital Multimeters, Calibrators and Data Loggers.
To maintain our technical leadership we require graduates
who can combine flair and innovation with aptitude for
design in any of the following disciplines:
Analogue — advanced circuit designs in the frequency
range DC to 1 MHz.
Digital — system design using microprocessors, gate arrays
and interface technology.
Software — real time measurement system management
and interface handlers using both assembler and structured
languages.
You will work within a highly skilled team on the development
of new products incorporating imaginative measurement
techniques and the latest technology. Training will be under
Datron Instruments Limited, Hurricane Way, Norwich, NR6 6JB.
the guidance of a senior engineer, supplemented by
specialist courses.
Datron offers an excellent working environment in a new, well
equipped Engineering Research facility. This is augmented
by an informal and friendly atmosphere. Based in ancient
Norwich, close to both the coast and Norfolk Broads, the area
offers excellent recreational facilities and low cost housing.
Your experience at Datron will give you an identity in a
company which has an international reputation for quality
and technical excellence. With current growth rates of
50% per annum there are opportunities for further career
advancement.
Highly competitive salaries will be offered; other benefits
include profit share, a transferable pension scheme and
BUPA. Assistance with relocation is available.
Final years students are invited to apply. For further infor-
mation please contact the Careers Advisory Service or meet
us at the Careers Fair.
* Leading in measurement technology
* 50% growth in turnover
* Plants in Norwich and Florida
* Technology Award Winners
* Full air conditioned laboratory
* Ambitious R&D Programmes
* Attractively priced housing
* Scope for career advancement
12 Friday 19 October 1984 FELIX

