CFEATURE
PART II
Money off your rent
Last week we saw how to claim Housing Benefit during term
time. In this issue the appeals procedure is explained, for those
who feel that the local authority have made an unfair decision.
Appeals
If you are unhappy with any decision made
by the local authority you have the right to
appeal. There are a number of stages in this
procedure.
1 Local authority (LA) inform you of their
initial decision. You have a right to ask for a(
written breakdown of how your benefit has
been assessed: When you receive thisi
breakdown it is probably wise to check the;
figures with Students Services.
2 If you are not happy with tis assessment'
you have six weeks to write to the L A asking
them to look again at your case giving your
reasons why you think their assessment is
incorrect. They will inform you in writing of
the result of this review.
3 If you are still not satisfied you have 28
days in which to ask for your case to go
before a review board. This is a fairly informal
hearing when the L A and yourself put your
case before three councillors who them
make a decision. Student Services canj
arrange representation for you at a review j
board hearing so don't be worried about
pushing your case forward — it's not nearly
as threatening as it's made to sound.
4 Finally, if you wish to take the matter still
further you can appeal to the courts.
Don't be afraid to push for a review of your
case as there are still a disconcerting number
of errors being made in initial assessments.
Student claims are extremely complex to
calculate and therefore some mistakes and
delays are bound to occur but you are
entitled to these monies so don't allow
yourself to be defeated by Town Hall
bureaucracies.
Warning to Overseas Students
Applying for rent and rate rebates is
considered to be recourse to public funds
and is therefore in contravention of your
conditions of stay in this country. Although
applications are not frequently checked you
could be in serious trouble with the Home
Office if it was discovered that you had made
an application.
Conclusion
The 'Unified Housing Benefit' system has
now been in operation for just over 1 year. At
its outset it was intended to unify and simplify
the dual systems then operated by Local
Housing Authorities and the DHSS. In reality
it has created yet more confusion and
financial hardship for those least able to
carry the burden. The whole situation has
been further aggravated by the introduction
of more amendments to the scheme in both
April and November of this year, and by
severe staff shortages in many housing
benefit departments. Consequently
although all the details in this article are, to
the best of my knowledge, correct at the time
of going to press, students may find
themselves subject to contradicatory advice
from individual officers at local Town Halls. If
you are unsure about anything you have
been told make sure you check it out with
Student Services or you could end up losing
money.
Chasing up unpaid benefits — If you want to
check up on the progress of your claim you
can ring the relevant Housing Benefit
department (visits to the departments in
many boroughs are simply time consuming
and pointless). When you are finally
connected, you will not usually be talking to
the person who is actually dealing with your
claim so it is pointless venting your
frustration on them. However if you are not
satisfied with the answers you receive, you
can ask to speak to the actual assessment
officer dealing with your case although they
are frequently 'not available'. If you live in
Kensington & Chelsea, Hammersmith or
Wandsworth you can expect to hear
something within about two months of
submitting your claim but in parts of Fulham,
Westminster and Lambeth the await is more
likely to be around six to nine months so
don't bother ringing too soon or too often as
it simply clogs up the switchboards and
delays claims even longer. Student s are still
automatically given a very low priority in
most boroughs but if your are experiencing
particularly severe financial problems eg you
are a student without a grant or you are
facing landlord problems through non-
payment of rent then make these facts
kn^vvn to your assessment officer and most
will try to be sympathetic. If you are unhappy
with the way in which your case has been
dealt with you can write to the Chairman of
the Housing Committee in your borough and
complain to your M P (this is quite a useful
exercise since many MPs are still blissfully
unaware of the hardships the Housing
Benefit scheme is causing). However before
aggravating your local authority too much it
is wise to seek help over any difficulties from
Student Services as we are happy to contact
authorities on your behalf and may be able to
help peacefully resolve any conflicts.
The numbers for the main authorities around
the College are given below:
Hammersmith & Fulham 7748 3020
Kensington & Chelsea 937 5464
Lambeth 274 7722
Wandsworth 871 1255
Westminister 828 8070
GOOD NCUS ,HAvrE'R,youft ^
REBATE WAS ARK/VCD! hie cm
move BACK TO Ttfe CASTLF
^ — — N/ow!
Friday 19 October 1984 FELIX

