CLUBSJ
Members of the City & Guilds
knotty cerebral teasers, we wish to fashion a
new pedal car for the Bristol '85 pedal car
rally, a paltry 24 hour say-hello-to Hades
session.
So anyone not already caught by a
terminal addiction to these mechanical
abortions (All proudly displayed at the
Freshers Fair) and possessed of a penchant
for burning off Mercs and Porches under
their own steam, should materialise in
Southside Upper Lounge at 1.00pm on
Wednesday. This minor concession to my
will earns all willing victims a chance to test-
drive the Windcheetah (and if you're also
Human Powered Vehicle Club
suffering advanced senile dementia, a crack
at the pedal cars too.) I will organise a trip
down to Richmond the next week for the
survivors. (It really helps if you have a bike).
There is one minor penalty for such apparent
generosity — I have to clear out the rather
randomised pedal car room for which I
require willing beasts of labour (see I hide
nothing from you).
If, by any chance, you cannot attend at the
appointed hour contact Piers Gaffney via the
Chem 111 letter rack or leave a note in the
HPV pigion hole in the C & G union office.
C&G HPV
Pedalling
for profit
Would you like to help vindicate the name of
IC as one of the top engineering colleges in
Britain today or, alternatively, expose it for
what is is? well here's your chance. C & G
H P V (Human Powered Vehicle) Club is the
one for you and open to all. This invitation is
open to all those ranging from the
educationally subnormal with a yen for bag-
of-bolt engineering (we built and race
phenomenally Heath -Robinson pedal cars at
various charity events) to those cativated by
the thrill of racing posey, high speed, finely
tuned velocipedes (our old vehicles, the
Burrows Windcheetah SL, has done
wellover 60mph down hill and about 45mph
on the flat for a mile or so) We still race in
national H P V competitions and a flash
spanking new, faring is nearly completed.
We have a long term objective of building a
somewhat revolutionary H P V to put the
willies up the best of our opponents, as well
as a weather eye looking to pull a few of the
more lucrative cash prizes around (Does a
cut in $10,000 tempt you?).
For those wishing to engage with such
CHRISTIAN
Retreat
to Allington
The Christian Union pre-term house party
last month took place amid the medieval
splendour of Allington Castle, near
Maidstone in Kent. It began on the afternoon
of Tuesday 25 September and ended after
lunch on the following Friday.
Those of us who travelled by train found
that the 'short' walk from the station to the
castle took at least an hour, and some of the
motorists also found that their transport
didn't quite take them to the front door—a
Beetle with broken suspension was beyond
repair. We were pleased to find however,
that we were well looked after by the
Carmelite friars (no connection with KP)
who have been running Allington Castle as a
retreat and conference centre for Christian
groups for several decades.
There has been an increasing degree of co-
operation between the various Christian
groups in College over the past year, and this
trend was continued by the presence of
several members of the West London
Chaplaincy, Cathsoc and by the whole
Chaplaincy conference joining the C U for
worship on Friday morning. The rest of the
time was spent in worship and in prayer,
particularly to ask for God's help and
guidance in running the Christian Union
during the coming year.
We also had the pleasure of the company
of John Irving of Holy Trinity, Brompton who
led an enlightening and interesting study of 2
Timothy. There was, of course, usual
smattering of John's famous anecdotes.
A good time was had by everyone and I feel
sure we would all agree that the conference
was an ideal way to start the term.
DEBA TING
NuclearPower
What will nuclear power do for us in the long
term? There are those who say it will release
us from a dependence on fossil fuels, and,
with proper waste management, give us a
pollution free power supply. Also, with the
advent of fusion power, we will gain an
almost limitless source of energy. Others
believe that leaks of radiation and reactor
accidents will create the worst ecological
disaster man has ever inflicted upon himself,
and that the security required during
transport of radioactive materials will
seriously erode our freedoms.
On Tuesday 23 October representatives
from both sides, Dr Llewdy from the U K
Atomic Energy Authority and George
Pritchard, Campaigner for Greenpeace will
debate the nuclear issue. The motion will be
'This House supports the Continued Use
and Development of nuclear power'.
If you have strong views on Nuclear
Power, or would like any questions
answered, or are just interested to hear the
two sides clashing, come along to Chem Eng
Lecture Theatre two at 1.00pm on Tuesday,
and find out what its really about.
WARGAMES
Hack and slay!
There will be a General meeting of Imperial
College Wargames Club on Wednesday 24
October at 1.00pm in the Union SCR.
Informal elections for various posts
(transport, treasure trap, role-playing and
board games officers) will be held. The
meeting will also decide on which games the
club's funds will be spent (This is the time to
get the club to pay for that expensive
system!) and whether trips to treasurer trap
will be subsidized. There may also be a
motion to change the club's name from
'Wargames' to one which reflects the club's
wide ranging interests. Suggestions would be
appreciated.
Thank you for the enthusiastic response at
the 'Freshers Fair'. Hopefully many of the
people who put their names down will
develop their interests and come along to at
least one of our weekly meetings (Wed and
Sun LOOpm Union SCR) and see what really
happens.
Finally; a discount of 10% has been
arranged at Games People Play in Notting
Hill Gate, and a similar reduction is available
at Games Workshop in Ravens Court part
with special photocard.
FELIX Friday 19 October 1984 9

