FEATURE
FELIX
10 Friday 18 february 2011
the spending of the last decade – a period
which now by comparison seems like a golden
age. At the same time, publishing companies
continue to make large profits. From 2005-
2009 Elsevier’s profits increased from around
£1 billion to £1.6 billion. Libraries have been
locked into so-called “big deals” with these
publishers. Their 3-year subscription deals
offer their researchers instant access to thou-
sands of journals but have tied libraries into
6% price increases year-on-year.
The pressure for libraries to reduce costs
has become irresistible – “the fact is that we
don’t have money in the sector and we can’t
afford to go on spending as we have,” says
Deborah. With journal subscriptions taking
up a significant chunk of library spending –
Imperial spends £3.8 million each year on
journal subscriptions (out of a total library
budget of £8.9 million) – there is no question,
in Deborah Shorley’s opinion, as to where the
savings need to be made: publishers need to
cut their prices.
So leads us to the remarkable story of Impe-
rial College’s self-effacing head librarian, pit-
ted in a battle of nerves against the publisher of
titles like the Lancet. She is leading Research
Libraries UK (RLUK), which represents the
libraries of Russell Group universities, in a
public campaign to pressure big publishers to
end up-front payments, to allow them to pay in
sterling and to reduce their subscription fees by
15%. The stakes are high, library staff and ser-
vices are at risk and if an agreement or an alter-
native delivery plan is not in place by January
2nd next year, researchers at Imperial and else-
where will lose access to thousands of journals.
But Deborah Shorley is determined to take it to
the edge if necessary: “I will not blink.”
Pre-2000, university libraries would sub-
scribe to individual journal titles. They would
take a discerning look at the journals on of-
fer and purchase only those that they explic-
itly desired. The primary mode of delivery
was print but at the Internet took bold strides
forward and publishers invested time and
money developing software that would allow
researchers to access papers and journals at
the click of a button, a new age of the “big-
deal” was born. Publishers offered access to
thousands of journals – including back-issues,
meticulously and expensively digitized back to
volume one, issue one – at a marginally higher
cost. Where before libraries would subscribe
to a few hundred journals, their researchers
now had access to thousands.
But prices soon began to rise. The bulk
deals would include an approximate 6% price
increase year-on-year, well above inflation.
Why did libraries accept these increases?
David Prosser, Executive Director of RLUK,
says that libraries didn’t have much choice:
“In the past the researchers have been saying
to us that they need access to this material, so
pay for it. We had to pull out all the stops to
meet the demand and because we could find
the money to pay, we did.” Publishers have de-
fended the rises by pointing to the increased
volume of articles that publishers provide,
about 3% each year says a spokesman for
the Publishing Association (PA) – Elsevier
declined to comment while Wiley Blackwell
had not responded to questions by the time
of print. Include inflation with the increased
volume of articles, the PA argues, and the 6%
price increase is entirely reasonable. However,
an institution like Imperial now accesses jour-
nals entirely electronically, which means that
though the volume of articles increases by 3%,
the associated costs do not.
This isn’t the first time that big publishers
have faced these sorts of criticisms. In June
2010, the University of California (UC) threat-
ened to boycott the Nature Publishing Group,
which you could have guessed publishes Na-
ture, after they tried to increase the cost of
their subscription by a whopping 400%. In
a letter to its faculties, UC accused them of
being “unresponsive to the [financial] plight
of libraries” and urged its researchers to boy-
cott the publisher if necessary by declining to
peer review or edit for journals owned by the
Nature Publishing Group or even submit their
papers to them. The letter spoke of the need
to “break the monopoly that commercial and
for profit entities like NPG hold over the work
that we create”. The dispute was eventually
resolved amicably but UC’s comments were
echoed by Robert Darnton, the Director of
Harvard University Library, who in Decem-
ber 2010 called for the “monopolies of price-
gouging publishers […] to be broken.”
Publishing companies can, by purchasing the
major journals in an area of research, own a
monopoly in certain research topics. However,
the Publishing Association reject the accusa-
tion and say that publishing companies operate
in a market and that researchers have a choice
as to where to publish their papers and that li-
braries are free to negotiate on price. Deborah
Shorley points out that their contracts are sub-
ject to non-disclosure agreements meaning that
they can’t compare prices with other universi-
ties: “Which means that you’re negotiating
with one hand tied behind your back.”
The alternatives to reducing the cost of ma-
jor subscriptions are quite unpalatable. Sub-
scriptions to smaller publishers and learned
societies could be the first to go. But ultimate-
ly resources must be protected says Deborah
Shorley. The result of this, which she admits is
controversial, is that library staff are vulner-
able to redundancy: “If I protect the staff but
not resources, it leaves no resources for staff to
provide.” David Prosser claims that publishers
want libraries to cut staff in order to be able
to afford the subscriptions: “The Publishing
Association has told us that we should be sav-
ing money by sacking people. It’s completely
unimaginable for them to reduce their costs.”
However, the PA told Felix that they it is for
libraries to decide how to balance their books
and, publicly at least, Elsevier has appeared
sympathetic to library budget constraints,
telling the Wall Street Journal last November:
“These are very difficult times, and we will
work with [libraries].”
In the middle of these high-level nego-
tiations, both public and private, are the re-
searchers, who of course don’t pay for their
consumption; when the cost is zero, demand is
infinite. RLUK, however, are searching for an
alternative to the current arrangement with big
publishers. They are developing a contingency
plan which will allow them to walk away from
the publishers while reassuring academics that
their research won’t suffer. A “world expert in
document supply”, as Deborah Shorley refers
to him, is developing the contingency plan at
Imperial. The plan will involve purchasing the
must-have, high-use journals individually (re-
search has shown that 5% of journals account
for 40% of journal subscription use) and sup-
plying other papers through document supply,
which means that researchers are able to read
an abstract and request delivery of the paper,
commonly from the British Library. Delivery
times for document supply can be less than
two hours electronically. Additionally, 10%
of the material that libraries receive through
paid subscriptions is already available through
open-access. Deborah Shorley is keen to work
with researchers, to help them avoid disrup-
tion if the contingency plan is needed, “At the
beginning of the next academic year, we’ll be
offering very practical help to researchers so
that they are as unaffected as possible.” The PA
is sceptical about RLUK’s ability to replicate
the service that publishers currently provide,
which Deborah Shorley admits will be diffi-
cult. However, she argues that they will be able
to go a long way to matching it and that any
short-term pain will be for long-term gain, “we
want researchers to be on board to understand
this is worth it in the long term.” She stressed
that ideally they would not have to resort to the
contigency plan.
Still, the libraries are adamant that they won’t
back down from their demands. The key, how-
ever, to the struggle is how researchers respond
to the debate. If they can be convinced that
rising journal costs are threatening to compro-
mise research in the long-term and that the con-
tingency plan will allow them to continue their
work without much disruption, then the pres-
sure on the publishers will be overwhelming.
But if researchers demand access to journals,
whatever the cost, libraries will be between a
rock and a hard place. The fight for the hearts
and minds of academics is crucial.
“The fact is we don’t have money in
the sector and we can’t afford to go
on spending as we have.”
“I WILL
NOT BLINK”
Deborah Shorley,
Head of Imperial’s
library, will take
Britain’s biggest
publishers to the
edge if neccessary
Features Editors: Lizzie Crouch
felix@imperial.ac.uk
...Continued from Front Page
Jan Piotrowski
Kadhim Shubber

