SCIENCE
FELIX
12
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Charlie Harvey
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Hoax of the Week
Musical Condoms
You won’t believe it...
Judging a book by its cover
Why is it that the most attractive people always
seem to be the most popular too? Research from
the University of British Columbia has shown that
fitties, as well as being noticed more than their
plainer friends, are seen as more open, consci-
entious and agreeable. Researchers observed 75
conversations between men and women, making
the participants rate their conversation partners on
a number of traits. So if you find yourself alone at
the next houseparty, don’t worry. It’s not becuase
you’ve got a lame personality, it’s because you’ve
got an unattractive face!
This hoax dates back to the mid 90’s when reports
in the UK emerged that a Hungarian Scientist had in-
vented a condom which would play music when put
on. The stories reported that one song selected for
the condoms was ‘Arise, Ye Worker’ (a communist
hymn). Despite their best efforts no one was ever
able to find Ferenc Kovacs and his lyrical inventions.
The same occurred almost a decade later when re-
ports surfaced that Ukranian Dr Grigorii Chausovskii
had produced condoms with ‘sensors’ that would al-
ter the music they played depending on the wearer’s
position. Again it turned out to be nothing more than
a hoax with Dr Chausovskii and his invention impos-
sible to track down.
Ben Good
Thea Cunningham
How did the seahorse get its shape? According
to a new study published in Nature Commu-
nications, the tiny critters’ horse-like bodies
evolved to help them capture prey large dis-
tances away from their beady eyes.
Seahorses, so-called because their bent head,
curved neck and long snout resemble our equine
friends, evolved from pipefish, which have
straight, pencil-like bodies. Both seahorses and
pipefish are part of the syngnathid family of
fishes, which feast on small shrimps and larval
fishes and are all equipped with large tendons
that enable speedy head and neck movements.
Unlike pipefish, which swim towards their prey,
seahorses dine by a process known as pivot
feeding, where the recoil of these tendons al-
lows their head to move rapidly upwards and
draw the prey into their snout using suction.
It’s been suggested the evolution of seahorses
from pipefish was somehow related to changes
in seagrass habitats or the creature’s behaviour
towards hunting for food, but until now it’s not
been understood how the straight and narrow
bodies of pipefish evolved into the S-shaped
structure seen in seahorses today.
To investigate, Sam Van Wassenbergh at the
University of Antwerp and colleagues devel-
oped mathematical models to simulate head ro-
tation in both fishes. By gradually adjusting the
posture of the head and trunk, they transformed
the pipefish model into a seahorse-like shape.
Whilst doing so, the team discovered the strike
distance (the distance between the eyes that see
the passing prey and the final position of the
mouth that catches it) increased considerably.
Motion measurements recorded by the group
revealed a curved trunk enables the seahorse to
strike at prey further away compared to pipe-
fish. An increased strike distance is particularly
useful for seahorses, who spend more than
80% of their time glued to seagrass or fellow
seahorses, and adopt a ‘sit-and-wait’ feeding
strategy, where they sit tight whilst scanning
the water for tasty-looking prey.
The team propose this difference in forag-
ing behaviour is linked to selective pressures
on strike distance, which caused the sharp head
and trunk angle seen in seahorses to evolve.
Because seahorses are weak swimmers, evolv-
ing an S-shaped body increased the volume
of water in which they could probe for prey,
whilst allowing them to cling on tight and
lunge forward. This sit-and-wait feasting meth-
od is likely to have evolved before selection
for increased strike distance through a curved
trunk in the common ancestor.
Read the original journal article:
doi:10.1038/ncomms1168
One of my most pleasant discoveries since ar-
riving at Imperial has been the amazing science
fiction library. For a small membership fee any-
body can borrow items from its vast collection
of over 9000 books and 1800 DVDs. It’s al-
lowed me to see brilliant films, such as Donnie
Darko, and TV shows such as Firefly and, most
recently, Babylon 5.
Never reaching the widespread recognition
of Star Trek it nevertheless has a well-deserved
reputation in science fiction circles as one of the
best television shows of the genre. It focuses on
the space station Babylon 5, built by humanity
in the aftermath of the deadly Minbari War as
an attempt to foster peace throughout the gal-
axy. In the first four seasons the station’s crew
have to face the re-emergence of an ancient
evil, the Shadows, and a corrupt government
back at home. Filled with political intrigue and
moral dilemmas, I can safely say that there was
nothing like Babylon 5 on TV until the new
Battlestar Galactica came out.
That’s not to say it doesn’t have its faults.
The show consistently aimed its attempts at hu-
mour at the lowest common denominator, often
resulting in their abject failure in a show with
so serious a tone. The deeply moving episode
‘Day of the Dead’, where many of the charac-
ters saw visions of their dead friends and en-
emies, was almost completely spoiled by the
appearance of the comedians Rebo and Zooty,
played by Penn and Teller. They were made out
to be sharp political satirists and the greatest
comic minds of their generation but turned out
to be a lame Laurel and Hardy style double act.
When almost the entire cast burst out laughing
at their antics near the beginning of the episode
I began to worry that there was a gas leak on
the station.
The show is also quite dull and slow-paced at
its beginning. While most people say it picks up
in its second season, for me it only reached its
true potential in the brilliant season three epi-
sode ‘Messages from Earth’ when the conflict
with Earth begins in earnest. This was always
my favourite storyline, as government corrup-
tion is easier to relate to than giant cosmic evil.
I hope that these comments don’t put you off.
I am, in fact, only stalling for time as I simply
cannot find words to describe how good this
show can be. I even enjoyed season five, which
got a mixed reception from the fans.
If you watch no other science fiction, watch
Babylon 5. At its worst it’s still as good as a
mediocre Star Trek episode and at its best its
Hugo-award-winning good.
See horse, that’s how you got your shape, you silly little horse
Seahorse race to equine finish line
BY THE
RIVERS OF
BABYLON 5
Maciej Matuszewski
on political corruption,
giant cosmic evils and
libraries
Mathemetical model demonstrates an upright advantage
Friday 18 february 2011

