felix
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Samuel Gibbs
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Plans for a universal phone charger for all mo-
bile handsets sold in the EU have gone ahead
this week. Manufacturing has already begun
by many of the 14 firms that have subscribed to
the initiative, which will see a special charging
port added to all devices manufactured from
now on.
This will help with the environmental impact
of having over 51,000 tonnes of waste chargers
produced each year. The problem arises when
consumers purchase new mobile phones and
discard their old chargers. Over 30 million mo-
biles are sold in the UK each year leading to a
huge amount of rubbish.
How often have we travelled somewhere and
forgotten our charger and had to borrow one
from a friend? Inevitably we can’t find the cor-
rect charger and have to traipse around asking
whether someone at the office has the correct
charger. There are over 30 different chargers
on the market today which almost always re-
sults in waste and too many chargers in every
household!
Did you know that since 1994 an estimated
10 billion mobile phones have been sold world-
wide? As of July 2010 we know that 5 billion
are in current circulation. This easy maths
means that around 5 billion mobile phones are
defunct and lying, buried amongst wires and
disused currency in our drawers, in our garages
and in our attics. With all these handsets inevi-
tably comes the paraphernalia associated with
them: packaging, boxes, instruction manuals
and the obligatory chargers.
Unfortunately the most costly of these to the
environment is the charger. All the electronics,
manufacturing, transportation and electricity
drain adds up to huge amounts when multiplied
by 10 billion. That is why in March 2009 the
EU drew up a voluntary contract for all mobile
Free App of the Week
iOS - Google Translate
Google Translate has finally made it to iOS! Finally
you can wield the power of the Universal Translator in
the palm of your hand. Speech or text both accepted.
Google Translate has been on the Android platform
for a while now, but it’s still an essential tool if you
ever get lost in translation.
Android - Google Translate
EU ends charger nightmare
Jacob Lea-Wilson
Incipio is pretty well known for its slim-
line iPhone cases. From the first generation
through to the iPhone 4, Incipio has made
some of the best minimal cases money can
buy. So you could say Incipio’s latest, the
feather for iPhone 4, has some big boots to fill.
Feather by name, feather by nature – at less
than 1mm thick, it’s certainly minimal. In fact
it’s the thinnest case I’ve come across, and fits
the iPhone 4 exactly.The entire back is cov-
ered except for a hole for the camera lens and
flash, while the side controls plus the top and
bottom are exposed for easy access.
The case is made from a rigid, but soft-touch
plastic, and clips onto the corners of the an-
tenna band and along the sides, minus where
the volume controls are located. This means
that the glass screen sits about 1mm out from
the case edges, essentially leaving it totally ex-
posed. It’s a good thing then that Incipio have
Feather-light protection for your iPhone 4
Samuel Gibbs
phone manufacturers within the 27 EU mem-
ber states to subscribe to using a single charge
device or the firms were to face mandatory EU
legislation. Unsurprisingly they opted for the
voluntary common standards option which left
the details open to negotiation. The voluntary
common standards were henceforth known as
a Memorandum of Understanding and are con-
fusingly referred to as the MoU.
The cross-company technology has been un-
veiled as the micro-USB (universal serial bus)
connector that is already in use with some of
the major handset manufacturers like Nokia,
RIM (Blackberry) and Samsung. In total 14
firms have signed up for this voluntary contract
including the giants of Apple, Motorola and
SonyEricsson. This port traditionally allows
data transfer as well as power charging capa-
bilities for handsets. Thus they will be able to
charge from wall sockets or computers.
Fortunately for Apple there is a loophole in
the standardisation contracts that states that the
devices don’t have to have a mini-USB port
directly on the machine. They can instead be
added by means of a converter. Apple make
a large portion of their profits from selling li-
censes to third party companies to develop pe-
ripherals to their devices. They will be able to
continue doing this and it’s likely they will ship
a small converter with their iPhones within the
coming months.
The next step, once these chargers have satu-
rated the market, is to stop supplying the char-
gers with the mobile phones. This is likely to
happen inside of two years, thus removing any
further manufacture of unneeded chargers. It is
hoped in the future that this will spread to other
personal devices such as MP3 players, tablets,
digital cameras and laptops but no move by the
EU has thus far been made.
included two screen protectors in the box, but
I can’t help thinking the edges of the screen
are a little too exposed. Glass is glass after
all, and an impact at the wrong angle means a
shattered screen.
While it’s not going to help in the slight-
est if you drop your iPhone, if you’re
just looking for a case to prevent that
gorgeous glass back from getting
all scratched up, the Incipio
Feather for iPhone 4 is
ideal.
Available in 12 dif-
ferent colours and
yours for £15.
Instead of ten wires eternally tangled, you can now have one eternally lost
14
“Feather
by name,
feather by
nature — at less
than 1mm thick it’s
certainly minimal.”
Friday 18 february 2011

