Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX 15
BUSINESS
The New Worlds Conference
Marco Aliprandi and Henri Sartorius share with Felix an attendant’s first-hand
view of the Finance Society’s conference and flagship event of the year
O
n Saturday 5th February,
the Imperial College Fi-
nance Society organised
a landmark event – the
first financial conference
in its history. The aim of this confer-
ence was to present students with the
opportunity to listen to experienced
industry professionals about issues that
have concerned the financial markets
in the recent and not-so-recent past, as
well as to provide them with a set of
insights into the much debated world
of finance; hopefully enabling them to
make up their own mind as to where the
industry is heading. This, along with
the networking opportunities available
during the breaks with the Finance So-
ciety’s illustrious list of sponsors rep-
resented a unique experience for all
students, many of whom are looking to
enter a career in the financial markets
and the banking industry in general.
The conference has been fathered and
nurtured by Vishnu Aggarwal, whom
we wish to thank and congratulate with
particular emphasis; its success is a di-
rect result of his professionalism, lead-
ership and organisational skills and of
the motivation and attention to detail of
the team that supported and surrounded
him. The marketing and advertising of
the event was crucial as the attendance
was the gauge by which the success or
failure of this first conference would be
measured. A very dedicated marketing
team did a fantastic job, which includ-
ed setting up a website, sifting through
dozens and dozens of CVs and applica-
tions as well as actively spamming and
hunting down the chosen few in order
to get them to pay the £24 fee sooner
rather than later (we would like to
stress that it is a very reasonable price
tag considering that other conferences
charge upwards of £75). The efforts of
the marketing team did not go unan-
swered and many of the 250 delegates
were drafted from a wide range of top
universities such as LSE, Warwick,
UCL and Imperial College itself.
It is, however, worth noticing that the
organisation of this event was no pic-
nic; rather it was a lengthy, difficult and
slightly painful funeral luncheon. Select-
ing a venue in central London was the
first challenge, but the society managed
to secure a very prestigious location, the
Bloomberg headquarters. Its most re-
markable trademarks are the many fish
tanks and modern art exhibits scattered
around the building as well as the wide
selection of complimentary food and
drinks available throughout the day, of
which delegates and speakers alike took
advantage quite unceremoniously. The
selection of speakers was next on the to-
do list; thanks to the extensive network
of corporate sponsors of the Finance
Society, Vishnu and his acolytes would
contact various senior professionals cur-
rently working in the City or otherwise
employed (or unemployed). The speak-
ers were selected from a wide range of
backgrounds and their contributions
were very varied; from a renowned
maths Professor dishing out formulae,
to a former investment banker revealing
inside stories of a credit-crunch-struck
bank; from a gloomy perspective of an
inevitable financial doomsday, to an op-
timistic view on junk bonds, there was
something for everybody.
The day kicked off with a very inter-
esting, albeit challenging talk on high
Friday 18 February 2011
yield bonds by Teo Lasarte of Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, followed by a
very engaging viewpoint on the broad
themes in commodities given by the
lively Morgan Stanley duo Michael
Brennan & Russell Dyk. The attend-
ees then got told how to deal with risk
by Professor Lane Hughston and were
made aware that society as we know
it may cease to exist due to a deadly
cocktail of debt, population growth,
ageing, climate change and peak oil
production by Dr. Mike Haywood. Af-
ter a well deserved break, guests were
able to attend three different workshops
organised by Amplify Trading; the first
two dealt with market analysis where a
video of frantic trading around the ma-
jor news flow of the non-farms payroll
data, while the third dealt with trading
psychology. The feedback on these
workshops was extremely positive and
everybody was very enthusiastic about
it. The afternoon was kick-started with
a valuable talk on what sparked the fi-
nancial crisis by the very experienced
former Societe Generale’s Global Head
of Fixed income and FX, Mr. Desclaux,
followed by talks from Mr. Simmonds,
the Global Head of Strategy and Re-
search at RBS as well as Mrs. Flax,
the EMEA CEO of Commodities at JP
Morgan about their respective industry
sectors. The day ended with a panel dis-
cussion mediated by Philip Alexander,
a journalist at ‘The Banker’ magazine.
The panel discussing the future of bank-
ing included Kiri Vijayarajah, the Euro-
pean Banks analyst at Barclays Capital
among other figures. It was then time
to head for some well-deserved com-
plimentary drinks for organisers and
guests at a bar near Liverpool Street;
details of that part of the day are unwor-
thy of a newspaper of this stature and
are probably quite hazy for most partici-
pants anyway.
Overall, the conference has achieved
the aims it was designed for; it has
been informative without being bor-
ing, factual, as jargon-free as possible,
interactive and challenging. The feed-
back from both speakers and delegates
has been overwhelmingly positive and
both parties found that a real exchange
took place, especially during the lunch
break and during the Q&A sessions af-
ter each talk. The Finance Society in-
tends to hold such an event next year as
well; the very wide appeal this confer-
ence has had, combined with its qual-
ity and affordability, will ensure that it
will grow and become more successful
every year and eventually overtake in
fame and glory other, more established,
equivalents.
“It has been
informative without
being boring, factual,
as jargon-free as
possible, interactive
and challenging.”
Hey! Lady in the middle, stop playing Angry Birds and pay attention. You don’t see beige jacket woman slacking off, do you? That’s why she’s going straight to the top baby!
Florian Rathgeber

