should have tried that. Meanwhile, Ouattara is
under UN guard at a five star hotel. So maybe
Ouattara doesn’t actually want a resolution to
this situation. ‘Oh no, this is terrible. Someone
in the International Community help, I’m stuck
here in this 5 star resort. Got to go; I’m late for
my massage, I mean my meeting, I still RE-
ALLY want to be President. Honest.’ If he can
drag this out long enough he’ll be in line for
some serious reward points.
A bizarre situation occurred when the results
of 3 out of 18 of the countries regions were
about to be announced. The election commis-
sion spokesman was about to read them out
when Damana Adia Pickass (I promise you
that is his real last name) snatched the results
and tore them up. Mr Pickass (stop laughing)
claimed there had been some ‘electoral hold
up.’ More precisely he held up the results and,
on camera, tore them up. All of this occurred
in front of a room full of journalists who were
‘asked’ to leave. The results weren’t read out
that day. So they only printed out one copy of
POLITICS
FELIX
16
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Algeria
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has been
indicted to face trial on charges of paying for sex
with an underaged prostitute called Ruby and
abuse of power. Mr Berlusconi’s trial is expected to
begin in April and he faces up to 15 years imprison-
ment if convicted. Mr Berlusconi has denied paying
for sex with Ruby and denies abusing his power by
seeking her release when she was detained in an-
other case, claiming that he was doing former Egyp-
tian President Hosni Mubarak a favour after being
told that Ruby was his granddaughter.
Italy
The Algerian Gov-
ernment has said
that it will end its
19 year old state
of emergency with-
in days. Algeria is
coming under in-
creasing pressure
to lift the state of emergency, which was imposed in
1992 to halt a civil war, after protests in Tunisia and
Egypt which led to the Government being toppled.
Thousands of protestors defied a police ban on Sat-
urday and protested in Algiers. There is widespread
discontentment in Algeria over poor housing condi-
tions, unemployment and food prices sparking a riot
in January. The Algerian Government is preparing to
make wholesale changes to the Government in a bid
to head off discontent, although some protestors
vowed to protest every Saturday until the Govern-
ment resigns.
Malaysia
Islamic morality police in Malaysia have arrested
96 people for khalwat or close proximity in an op-
eration to stop them from celebrating Valentine’s
Day. Khalwat is an Islamic law preventing unmarried
Muslims from being alone with members of the op-
posite sex. Under Malaysia’s dual-track legal sys-
tem, Shariah courts can try Muslims for religious
and moral offences, with those arrested facing up
to two years imprisonment. Religious authorities in
Malaysia have said that Valentine’s Day was syn-
onymous with vice and has issued a fatwa against
celebrating it in 2005. However, not all Malaysian
Muslims agreed with the campaign with some say-
ing that celebrating Valentine’s Day is harmless.
“Both sides are saying
the other has been
rigging the election. That
must be what hurts most
for the loser. You couldn’t
even win when you were
cheating.”
The last article I wrote was about Mubarak and
he resigned when it came out. Not saying it was
all me but coincidences like that don’t happen.
So now I’m going to hope my curse can help
two other countries.
Question: What do Ivory Coast and Belgium
have in common? Answer: both are without a
stable government. In fact Belgium has been
without a real government for longer, over 200
days. A well known Belgian actor Benoit Poel-
voorde has urged men not to shave until a per-
manent government is formed. A Belgian sena-
tor, Marleen Temmerman, has gone to more
extreme lengths saying wives should impose a
sex ban on MPs until a government is formed,
Male Belgian MPs should direct queries to Jac-
qui Smith’s husband for tips on handling, no
pun intended, the situation. Definitely worth
noting that the senator was female, no matter
how desperate they are for a resolution, no man
would ever call for that. Although I also note
she mentioned MPs and not senators – clever
move. No specific mentions on what type ei-
ther so I’m sure there is a loophole somewhere.
Perhaps Benoit Poelvoorde (he was in Man
Bites Dog and Coco before Chanel) and the
Senator are working together. They both have
a beard fetish and like to be teased, it’s the per-
fect crime.
The Belgian election was in June and no one
gained a majority or came to an agreement on
a permanent coalition. If Belgium doesn’t get
their act together by March 30th they will actu-
ally have a world record. They will have gone
the longest since an election without forming a
government, beating Iraq. That’s right, longer
than Iraq. If having to go without sex for a long
time isn’t a motivator. The thought of beating
Iraq at what is essentially an arguing contest
must be enough to get everyone to agree on
something. Likely starting with the immediate
blacklisting of Marleen Temmerman.
Elsewhere, Ivory Coast is at a stalemate.
With dramatic uprisings elsewhere it has been
pushed fairly low down the news agenda. The
election consisted of a first round where no
outright winner was produced and so entered
a second round. International observers de-
scribed the election as ‘generally fair.’ Take
into account that it is part of their job to be dip-
lomatic, and that becomes the faintest praise
possible. Both the incumbent Laurent Gbagbo
and opposition Alassane Ouattara are claim-
ing victory and have named their cabinets. By
that I mean political cabinets not that they have
simultaneously become attached to their furni-
ture.
They aren’t people who are going to enter a
power sharing agreement – I checked and they
defriended each other on Facebook. The inter-
national community is recognising Alassane
Ouattara as the President and Laurent Gbagbo
is recognising Laurent Gbagbo as President.
Gbagbo is reminding me of a spoilt child. He
hates losing, has locked himself inside his of-
fice and is refusing to come out. Gordon Brown
Elections never won
Tim Arbabzadah
the extremely important document containing
the election results? No printers around at all
in the building? Not one! We have a shitload in
the library but they don’t have one in a govern-
mental building. Forget that for a second and
think of this. It was a runoff between two peo-
ple, 3 regions were being announced – so that’s
6 numbers to remember. It’s like an exam. Lat-
er Gbagbo said that not all of the results had
been read out and so the result was not valid,
therefore he won. Well of course they weren’t
read out; as previously established, you got
someone to rip them up.
The full results are inconclusive. Both sides
are saying the other has been rigging the elec-
tion. In all likelihood both sides were. That
must be what hurts most for the loser. You
couldn’t even win when you were cheating;
it’s like being an athlete in the 80’s. African
nations have met to try to decide what should
be done. They have been pressured to intervene
but that is extremely unlikely to happen. The
main problem is that some of the leaders at
the summit were not exactly as fairly elected
as they should have been. The meeting, which
took place on the 1st of February, concluded
with the decision that they should give them-
selves a deadline of 1 month to think of some-
thing. Here was me worried they would end up
just doing fuck all but wait and hope for the
best. They had better pull an epic all nighter
at the end of February. Maybe as February is
shorter than other months, if they aren’t ready,
they will do what I would and say they meant
30 days not calendar months. We will all have
to wait to see how these two situations end. I
don’t know about you but I think I would rath-
er be Ouattara than a Belgian MP right now. I
can’t wait for Belgium to open Parliament set
to tune of The Lonely Island and Akon’s ‘I Just
Had Sex’.
Damana Adia Pickass subtley tears up democracy
Belgium and Ivory Coast remain without governments
Friday 18 february 2011

