18
COM M ENT
felix
P
oliticians want your vote,
and they will do anything
to get it. So it has been, so it
will always be. But the dif-
ference today, in this age of
growing individualism, television and
internet and is that to sell you whatever
you want, whoever you may be, their
face needs to be seen. And what does
this mean? Utter despair on my part at
the lengths political leaders will go to be
seen as hip, serious, family orientated,
funny, conscientious, laid–back – the list
goes on.
Today, they are everymen, desperate
to appeal to everyone, often at the cost
of policy and promises. Now they’re
probably best suited to be actors, and
I’m not just talking charisma and pub-
lic speaking like the days of old, I mean
absolute character actors of the highest
order, rather than overlooked thesps.
It wasn’t always this bad. All politi-
cians had to do since the dawn of mass
media was deliver uncomfortable radio
interviews or doubly uncomfortable tel-
evisual ones and then get back to their
job. Of course, the media has changed,
alongside the growing prevalence of tel-
evision and the internet. Reality TV has
put the lives of the individual at the fore-
front. “These guys run our country,” the
people shout, “why shouldn’t we know
everything about them?”
Blair was probably the first Prime
Minister able to deal with a more tech-
nological age; his charisma saw minis-
terial duties pass without great mishap.
He was down with Jarvis Cocker! I saw
through him, of course. Even in ’97 I
could see through his smug grin, though
I was probably biased, John Major had
SWEET glasses.
But then it all went downhill. Gordon
Brown enters office and crisis after cri-
sis hits. MPs’ expenses, recession and
the desire to follow both Blair and Cam-
eron’s charm offensive. Suddenly, the
Prime Minister wants to be bestie mates
with you, yes you! I wish I’d been there
when some genius suggested he appear
on Youtube. We are today blessed with
countless minutes of Brown’s deter-
mined grimace.
Then it was time to turn the computer
off and put Britain’s Got Talent on. Yes
that’s right, Brown, tell us what you like
to watch with the kids. Ring up Susan
Boyle and ask how she’s doing. It’s for
the good of the country, yeah? I’m sure
there’s nothing else more important. Lit-
erally nothing. At all.
Which leads us to the nexus of pain,
the build up to the 2010 election. Eve-
ryone was at it, at the expense of any
credibility or policy. Ostensibly moti-
vated by American politics, but no doubt
inspired by part time music mogul and
full time cretin Simon Cowell and The
X Factor, the three main leaders took
part in perhaps the most ill advised and
gut wrenchingly unconvincing ‘debates’
that I’ve ever had the displeasure to see.
Cameron once met someone of a differ-
ent race? Nice job, Dave!
And, oh God, the morning chat show
publicity tour. A party leader on GMTV
is as misplaced as Boris Johnson in a
gaffe–free zone. Yes, please ask Mr
Brown what he enjoys for breakfast. Oh
I’d simply LOVE to know what box sets
Mr Cameron is watching in his copi-
ous free time. The Wire? What a guy!
At least now GMTV’s gone and nobody
watches Daybreak.
Their wives join in too, with Sarah
Brown being paraded around along-
side Samantha Cameron; look at these
high–powered businesswomen, with
their nice shoes. That’s obviously what
Pop star politicians
we want from a leader. Doesn’t it just
warm the heart? No, it doesn’t. There’s
your answer.
At least it’s all worn off a bit now in
this inter-election political hinterland.
Well mainly, though Clegg’s still there,
now criticising Cambridge and Ox-
ford’s decision to raise their fees. A right
master of disguise, eh? He’d give Tom
Cruise a run for his money, not least his
situation being a real Mission: Impossi-
ble, zing!
I guess what I’m trying to say is that
it’s great that you politicians want votes,
but seriously, get behind your desks and
back to sorting out important things –
like policy. Get it into your heads that
the leader of a political party can’t al-
ways relate to everyone, and if you try,
with your forced smiles and your dire
jokes, it’s really going to put me through
severe mental trauma. And that’s basi-
cally akin to punching a basket of kit-
tens, guys.
I won’t be too mean though, go ahead
and sit down with your family in front
of Saturday night TV, but if I ever want
your opinion on why Lucy never gets
picked on Take Me Out, I’ll bloody well
ask for it.
We don’t want politicians who watch X Factor, so stop
faking it guys, and get back to running the country
Universities are facing a drastic funding
shortfall. As Felix reported last week, the
Higher Education Funding Council for Eng-
land has announced that it will be cutting
the money that it gives to universities by
almost £1 billion for 2011/12. These cuts
could affect all areas of a university’s ac-
tivities, and it will be up to individual insti-
tutions to decide what to prioritize. Even
though fees of £9,000 will go some way to
plugging the shortfall in funding, austere
times lie ahead of us.
This is the prime motivator for Research
Libraries UK’s (RLUK) campaign to per-
suade publishers like Elsevier and Wiley
Blackwell to reduce the cost of their jour-
nal subscriptions. In the first decade of
this new millennium, universities and their
libraries were comparatively well off. There
was enough money in the sector to allow li-
brarians to loosen their purse strings; there
was enough money to accept supinely the
6% yearly price rises demanded by publish-
ers. Now, however, this state of affairs can-
not continue. As David Prosser, Executive
Director of RLUK, succinctly puts it: “It was
unsustainable in the long-term and there
was always going to be a crunch-point. That
crunch-point has now arrived.”
Researchers must accept this fact. They
too will be aware that budgets are tighten-
ing; indeed their funding will also be under
pressure. Work with libraries and there’s a
chance that subscription costs will become
more sustainable, therefore ensuring con-
tinued access to the world-class service
that big publishers provide while not endan-
gering other library services and subscrip-
tions . Blindly demand the status quo at any
cost and ruin lies ahead.
This could mean accepting the short-term
pain that the contingency plan might bring.
The back-up plan being developed will ad-
mittedly provide a service that will not
match what researchers currently receive.
But rejecting it on this basis would be to
ignore the fact that libraries can no longer
afford the prices that big publishers have
demanded in the past.
The point is not to pillory the publishers.
The role that they perform is not trivial and
they have invested significantly in enabling
modern scientific research. The statements
that they have made in public give the im-
pression that they are sympathetic to the
problems faced by libraries. One hopes
they are not simply posturing. The zeitgeist
has changed irrevocably. University libraries
have understood this; it is essential that re-
searchers and publishers do the same.
FELIX
Matt Colvin
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Researchers should get
behind our libraries and
support their campaign
Ah, I see Boris has gone for the old ‘tickle behind the knee’. What a player...
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
C omment Editor: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
“”
Ring up Susan Boyle and ask
how she’s doing. It’s for the
good of the country, yeah?
Friday 18 february 2011

