HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Lolcat of teh week
Medics’ RAG Week
On campus
Entrepreneurs in Academia
The first in the ‘Best
Practice in Innovation,
Entrepreneurship & De-
sign’ series of talks,
this lecture promises
to characterize the aca-
demic individuals that
engage in entrepreneur-
ial activities as well as
best practice in technol-
ogy commercialisation.
Registration via the Im-
perial website.
BioSoc Debate
The BBC’s environment correspondent, Richard
Black, is to chair the 2011 BioSoc debate, entitled
‘Has the media failed science?’ Guest speakers in-
clude Simon Singh, Mr. Andrew Cohen, head of the
BBC science unit, Hannah Devlin, science correspon-
dent for The Times and Dr. Gareth Mitchell, presenter
of the BBC’s Digital Planet. The event is free and
open to all.
SAF, G16
24 February 18:00-19:00
Business School, LTUG
22 February 18:00-19:30
Lunchtime Concert
Swiftly following on from last week’s concert
provided by Alvin Moisey, the critically acclaimed
London Mozart Trio will be on campus to deliver
an ensemble performance. The event is open to
everyone on a first come first served basis. For more
information, contact Andrea Robins – a.robins@
imperial.ac.uk
Wolfson Education Centre, LT1
22 February 13:00-13:45
Union Notice
Halls Survey
The Union is looking into the issue of rent in halls (see
opposite page) and is launching a survey to discover stu-
dent opinion on a range of ideas. These include whether
the amenities fund should be scrapped or replaced with
an alternative, and also if there are any luxuries included
in room rent (like cleaning) that students would be happy
to do without for a lower rent. The survey should be on-
line early next week.
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine
Bettany Charles Betts Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Genevieve Pugh Haralambos Dayantis Design Editor Veronika McQuadeova
Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics
Editors James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editor Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors
Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky Jeyaprakash Fashion
Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Clubs & Societies Editor Roland Sookias Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Ravi Pall Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim
International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editor Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar
Hannah Thomas Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta Zainab Ali Joe Marinelli Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Illustrators Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
Unfortunately Ragman can’t fly; his cape is full of holes...
Friday 18 february 2011
It’s that time of year again, when Imperial
students have ton loads of fun to raise
money for charity. The ICSM RAG Week
kicks off on Monday with collections
starting at 6am (yikes) and continues
throughout the week with events at
Reynolds like Battle of the Bands
(Tuesday), Sports Night (Wednesday) and
the traditional Circle Line collection on
Thursday – tiny.cc/circleline.
Editor
Environmental Policy
The Union is in the process
of amending its Environmen-
tal Policy. Deputy President
(Welfare) Charlotte Ivison
has created a survey to find
out student opinion on the
sale of bottled water.
surveymonkey.com/
s/SNLDXL5)

