Jakov Marelic
felix
COMMENT
C omment Editor: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Time to meet your
malevolent maker
I called shenanigans on the existence of
God at the tender age of ten. Even before
I knew pie was more than something you
threw in 20’s slapstick comedies it never
made sense to me for an omnipotent being
to be benevolent, given that we have such
terrible things in this world as Justin Bieber,
truly an apocalyptic horseman of our time.
He also never returned my prayers, but I’m
sure he was too busy setting bushes on fire
like some geriatric yob.
The fallacy in the previous argument is
rather obvious but at the same time often
overlooked because of what our idea of God
generally is: some jolly old guy with a huge
white beard who keeps a caring, watchful
eye over us – except when he’s playing the
odd round of golf with Satan to keep on good
terms with him so that he can take all the
annoying do-gooders that would otherwise
go to Heaven.
No. If God exists he is a jerk. Once you take
a minute to think about it, it explains eve-
rything so beautifully it brings a tear to my
eye. Earthquakes, tsunamis and volcano
eruptions happen because He just likes see-
ing the different ways he can ruin your day,
like a child pulling the wings and legs off a
fly. Of course, on occasion good things do
happen, like winning the lottery or getting an
excellent in your latest lab cycle, but they’re
only to build you up so you can be knocked
back down again. It’s a lot funnier to see Fer-
nando Torres break his ankle than Stephen
Hawking.
I’m sure many of us would do the same;
history is fraught with examples of dictators
and Nazi doctors who probably weren’t evil
to begin with but inevitably did some really
bad things simply because they could and
were divorced from the morality of their ac-
tions for whatever reason.
God’s ultimate dick move, however, was
when he made the laws of nature. In cre-
ating the second law of thermodynamics
he’s essentially flipped the bird at us all by
saying everything is just going to get worse
as time goes by. That loaf of bread going
from brown to blue? Entropy is increasing.
Getting lung cancer and dying? Yep, you
guessed it. Shit getting worse is just the
natural order of things, and we as human
beings we have a tendency to resist this be-
cause we don’t like bad things happening to
ourselves (exceptions include Catholics and
sado-masochists).
In summary: if you want to get back at God
for all the ridiculous lecture timetables, flat
beer and cystic fibrosis he throws at us be-
cause he’s an incredible dick, go do some-
thing amazing, like curing cancer.
V
eli Akiner
Digital books kindle unease
T
yrants and autocrats have always un-
derstood that literacy, learning, books
and newspapers are potentially danger-
ous. They can put independent and even
rebellious ideas in the heads of their
subjects.
Frederick Douglass, a former slave who taught
himself to read, recalled being found with books by
his master and punished. In 1828 he wrote: “To make
a contented slave it is necessary to make a thought-
less one.” This is why reading and critical thinking
are dangerous in an unjust society.
The British Royal Governor of the Colony of Virgin-
ia wrote in 1671: “I thank God there are no free schools
nor printing; and I hope we shall not have [them].”
But the American colonists, understanding where
liberty lies, would have none of this and they en-
shrined free speech in their constitution.
I see people using Kindles and Sony Readers in-
stead of bound books and I worry they’re giving away
their birthright. Digital books require a lot of techni-
cal expertise to understand which is currently in the
hands of very few people. The books you buy for
most e-book readers are encrypted with a secret key
that only a particular device can understand.
You might think that’s okay because, hey, Amazon
and Apple need to make money too, but consider
what happens when they go out of business, or the
power goes out and all those books are lost, inacces-
sible inside technological prisons.
In the past, authorities wanting to remove books
from society would have to physically force their way
into everybody’s homes, examine all their shelves and
make a massive bonfire to burn all the contraband.
With e–book readers and an ethereal wireless inter-
net that task is made so much easier. In 2009 Amazon
recalled two e–books that customers had purchased
without warning. Just to make this clear, a clerk sat
in an office and pushed a button. It resulted in thou-
sands of copies of books being deleted remotely from
all Kindles worldwide. Ironically, those books were
Nineteen–Eighty Four and Animal Farm by George
Orwell.
With the Wikileaks drama a few weeks ago, we saw
how Amazon, Paypal, Visa, Mastercard and other
companies will easily do the bidding of governments
to control the population. I find it very easy to im-
agine that one day corporations or governments will
give the order and all copies of certain ‘undesirable’
books will be remotely deleted.
I’ll keep my bound books for now. But we’ve seen
how the Free Software movement promises to give
you complete control over your property and I don’t
see why the same model can’t be applied to e–book
readers. What we need is a Linux for the Kindle, easy
to install and available to all.
“I see people
using Kindles
and worry they’re
giving away their
birthright.”
Jack Garnham
Manipulative mediums
“Have we been
here in a past
life? Let me save
you the trouble;
the answer is no.”
W
hile enjoying one of my typically
exciting weekday evenings (dur-
ing which I systematically avoid
any kind of social interaction
and retreat to the comfort of my
couch), I stumbled upon a programme about past life
regression presented by ethereal pundit Phillip Scho-
field. The grey-haired horseshit peddler asks one of
the most important questions of our time – have we
been here in a past life?
Let me save you the trouble; the answer is no.
Each episode involves interrogating a suspiciously
relaxed Z–list celebrity about their past lives. Co-
median Eddie Large recalls being a Scottish warrior
wearing “some clothes” and fighting in “some field
somewhere,” adding that “it always happens in some
field.” Compelling stuff. The programme hides be-
hinds a paper–thin veneer of objectivity, occasion-
ally pointing out that it might all be a load of rubbish,
while heavily implying the opposite.
This brief glimpse into the bizarre and confusing
world of the paranormal got me thinking. According
to a recent study by sociologist Fabri Cation, an in-
creasing number of people are being drawn in by this
nonsense. We live in an age where otherwise logical
individuals read horoscopes daily, mothers hire baby-
psychics, and, perhaps most distressingly, where Uri
Geller can find repeated employment.
Despite the rapid progress of science and the con-
tinued elucidation of the unknown, people insist on
taking advice from people with capes and crystal
balls.
For the most part, casually dabbling in the curious
world of ghosts and ghouls is harmless. We can hap-
pily laugh at the vast majority of the wailing morons
who claim to have some link to the other side and
easily refute their increasingly ludicrous claims with
a measured dose of common sense and rationality.
Most people who believe in this absurd nonsense are
largely unharmed by their unfounded notions about
reality. Sadly, there is a much more troubling side to
this story.
The human mind is a vulnerable thing. I have no
gripe with psychics who strip the odd penny from
the deluded masses, but when they prey on those
distraught, fragile individuals who have recently
lost a loved one, I start to think that locking them
all up in windowless cells and leaving them to die
alone might not be so unreasonable after all. It is
hard to imagine how, but it is possible to become
addicted to psychic consultations. In a state of such
extreme despair, some will do anything to connect
to a deceased familiar. The high achieved during a
consultation merely distracts the client from the real
problem, and prevents them from moving on. It is
certainly not a cheap distraction either; you can pay
hundreds of pounds for a reading lasting less than
an hour.
These psychics are exploiting vulnerable individu-
als in the most callous fashion imaginable with little
concern for their wellbeing. This part of the paranor-
mal world is deeply corrupt. Perhaps there needs to
be some kind of regulatory body for psychic medi-
ums, imposing appropriate fines for exploitative con-
sultations. I personally think we should just put them
all in one enormous bag and hit them with sticks until
they agree to go away. Hitting things with sticks is
always the best solution.
Friday 18 february 2011
20

