CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
22
What’s On
Hyde Park Relays
Entry is now open to the 63rd running of the well-
established Hyde Park Relays – one of the largest
student relay races in Europe.
It’s an annual race organised by members of IC
Cross Country Club which pulls in hundreds of run-
ners from IC, across the UK and even as far as
Europe. Entrance to the race includes a FREE HOT
MEAL and access to the not-to-be-missed AFTER
PARTY!
The race follows an historic route through Hyde
Park and Kensington Gardens, winds around the
Serpentine lake, down to Hyde Park Corner, and fi-
nally finishes up at the band-stand.
Inter-club competition is heating up with alcoholic
prizes on offer for the fastest non-Cross Country
and Athletics club teams.
It is sure to be a great day and a memorable (or
perhaps not so memorable if you get on it) night,
which will be hosted at the newly refurbished MET-
RIC NIGHT CLUB for the very first time!!
Enter your team online now, for as little as £4 per
person, to make sure you don’t miss out on this
fantastic deal.
www.union.ic.ac.uk/acc/crosscountry/hpr
Daniel Beatrup
“The main part of their
act was to perform
traditional Cypriot
dances, with live music”
International Night
And the winner is... Cypriot Society!
Maria Vafeades
Last Friday, 11th of February at 7:00 p.m, the
Great Hall of Sherfield Building was packed
from Imperial College students, friends, par-
ents and staff. The reason? One of the most
entertaining and full of fun event that is orga-
nized annually by the Imperial College Over-
seas Societies Committee; the International
Night 2011!
OSC was very proud to welcome for the very
first time four Guest Judges who were respon-
sible for choosing the best performing group;
Fleur Estelle – International Dancer who has
been a guest judge on Strictly Come Dancing
as well, OSC Senior Treasurer Professor David
Stuckey, the ICU President Alex Kendall and
the ICSMSU President David Smith.
Christina Kontoghiorghe, the I-Night Chair,
was very satisfied from that amazing night and
she said with pride that they started organising
the event in July last year having great expec-
tations for that night, which were finally met!
This year we had 16 acts and 190 performers
in total.
Each society presented a characteristic act
according to its culture, its favourite habits and
hobbies. For more than 3 hours, the audience
was supportive of all of the participants and
the atmosphere was very warm and friendly,
something that shows that people in Impe-
rial College are not only good at Maths, but
they also respect the diversity of cultures and
recognize the equality of people all over the
world.
However, some acts had greater impact on
Anastasia Eleftheriou
the audience than others, for example, after the
performance of the last year’s winners, the Jap-
anese Society, Alex Kendall said with a sense
of humour that “he was now confused about his
sexuality”!
Although the first decision of the judges was
to elect the Techtonics society, they quickly
changed their minds because no representative
was there at that moment and they decided to
give the prize to the most popular society of
that night, the Cypriot Society. Greeks and Cy-
priots were very excited about this, as you can
imagine.
The President of the Cypriot Society, Con-
stantinos Christou, said that “The secret of our
success this year was that during the rehearsals
and the performance we were having a lot of
fun and we were enjoying ourselves. We were a
batch of 13 friends having a traditional Cypriot
party.”
Although, the Cypriot Society presents a
pretty much similar program every year, this
year they had some innovations that enter-
tained the audience. The main part of their act
was to perform traditional Cypriot dances, but
instead of using playbacks, they chose to play
live music (guitar and violin) and sing live. The
whole scenario took place in a typical coffee
shop, where people could enjoy a glass of ziva-
nia or koumantaria and a game of cards.
One of the most risky dancers of the show,
Faethon Milikouris, performed the traditional
and very demanding dance of tatsia, in which
he used a tray with a glass of koumantaria in it
and he spun it all the way around in all direc-
tions, leaving everyone there speechless. He
confessed that he was really nervous for this
particular point of his performance because he
couldn’t make any mistakes in order to keep
everyone safe. But he finally managed to make
it and impress the judges, showing his exper-
tise!
I believe that the detail that distinguishes the
Cypriot team from the others is that it was the
most interactive and pioneering team, as they
offered the audience Cypriot traditional food
sampling (halloumi cheese and lountza) and
drinks, showing the Cypriot hospitality.
Constantinos, who was playing the violin
as well, believes that “Everyone in the group
was dedicated and well organised, something
that was highly appreciated by the judges.” He
seemed very proud about the result and at the
end of the show he thanked everyone who sup-
ported him and the Cypriot Society.
At the end of the show, I heard some people
murmuring that this was definitely a Cypriot
night and I think they were right as in addition
to taking the iNight prize, the winner of the
raffle, Maria Zapiti was Cypriot, too! (note that
a prize was a return ticket to Cyprus..!)
Well done guys!
While everyone else was watching the acts, the Cypriots sat in the corner drinking and gambling. They were the lucky ones...
ARTFEST
All Week:
Busking in the Business School Foyer and in Sher-
field
Monday:
Sinfonietta perform in the Business School Foyer
@ 6pm
ArtiFact (RCA-Imperial Speed Dating) in the Union
Concert Hall @ 6pm – email artifact@imperial.ac.uk
for info and to register
Tuesday:
New PhotoSoc and LeoSoc exhibition ‘Un-tethered’
unveiled in the Blyth Gallery – meet the artists, min-
gle and enjoy posh refreshments!
Wednesday:
Free workshops in Huxley 344 – 2pm Belly Danc-
ing (girls only), 3pm Drama, 4pm A Capella Singing.
Come to one or all!
Flashmob barn dance – evening, location TBC (see
ARTSFEST on Facebook)
Thursday:
The incredible Onyx Brass @ 1pm, Business School
Foyer
ROCKFEST @ Metric with Jazz & Rock and Mu-
sictech Live
Friday:
Open Piano Recital @ 12.15pm, Read Theatre,
Sherfield Level 5 – boogie-woogie to Rachmaninov
on a Steinway, in 4-minute bites
The ARTSFEST Finale 2011 in the Great Hall @
8pm – unmissable. Buy tickets on the door or at any
ARTSFEST event
Friday 18 february 2011

