CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX 23
ARTSFEST – to some this word might
be completely alien; to others the phe-
nomenon is as much a part of Impe-
rial life as overnighting in the library.
ARTSFEST is Imperial’s annual arts
festival: a week of arts, dance, music
and drama, inspired by the rallying cry
that Imperialites are accomplished art-
ists in addition to studying a real de-
gree.
So what sets ARTSFEST apart from
the likes of RAG and SHAG Week?
“Campaign weeks at Imperial start with
a needy cause and usually end with
condoms,” says Jonathan Silver, ARTS-
FEST 2011 chair and former Sabbatical
Officer. ARTSFEST is different, he as-
serts, because “we start with great talent
and end by having a good time together.”
The week kicks off on Monday 21st
February with a free lunchtime concert
in the Business School Foyer from Im-
perial College Sinfonietta. From then
on, in various strategic locations around
College, buskers will compete for a
share of your lunch money from 1-2pm
every day. Jazz & Rock will rock Met-
ric on Thursday along with a set from
Musictech Live and to top it off, an en-
tire multitude of bands, ensembles and
performing groups will come together
for the Finale on Friday 25th, the jewel
in the ARTSFEST crown and by far its
most popular night.
From Hawaiian hula dance to swing
band jazz to Shakespeare, the ARTS-
FEST Finale screams variety. In previ-
ous years, choral works and martial arts
performances have made appearances;
if the standard of bygone Finales is an
indicator, this year’s audience will cer-
tainly not be disappointed. “There really
is something for everyone, and you’ll
discover your friends’ hidden talents,”
Silver enthuses. “My biggest hope is
that it will inspire you to give at least
one of our incredible arts societies a try.”
Concerts and shows are only part of
ARTSFEST: the 23rd of February will
see “Workshop Wednesday”, where
clubs and societies throw open their
doors and share their expertise with any
enthusiastic Imperial student or member
of staff. From learning how to sing like
the Techtonics to Belly Dancing (wom-
en only!) to theatre workshops from
DramSoc, next Wednesday’s free work-
shops will be for some the highlight of
the festival.
In Silver’s words, “ARTSFEST is a
way for us to discover the fantastic cre-
ativity that’s going on under our own
noses, give ourselves a pat on the back
for being artistic scientists, and still raise
money for an excellent cause in the pro-
cess.”
This year, revenue from busking and
collections at all ARTSFEST events will
be donated to the British Heart Founda-
tion, to coincide with National Heart
Month.
ARTSFEST 2011 takes place from the
21st until the 25th of February 2011. All
events are open to all staff, students and
visitors. All but ROCKFEST and the Fi-
nale are absolutely free (just £2 and £5
respectively). See opposite page for full
list of events.
ARTSFEST starts on Monday!
Aaron Pereira
Tom Roberts
Friday 18 february 2011

