A R T S
FELIX
26
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you read nothing else
this week...
An exhibition about mind-altering drugs
is likely to elicit the curiosity of nearly
everyone, since most of us are at least
occasional consumers. Remember how
full the Union is of inebriated students
some nights of the week? So, I was
ready to be surprised by what of artistic
value anyone could produce under the
influence of psychotropic drugs.
High Society is the title of the cur-
rent exhibition at the Wellcome Trust
Foundation, a charity whose aim is to
support innovation in the medical sci-
ences. Their exhibitions try to bridge the
gap between the sciences and the arts –
which may be an added bonus for you,
or might have you running for the hills
already. For my part, I was curious and
willing to give it a try. Even better, the
exhibit it free of charge, which is always
a plus for someone on a student budget.
On arriving at the Wellcome Gallery I
kept imagining what awaited me, bear-
ing in mind the imagery of the sixties
and psychedelic rock. However, the
expectations that the poster, with its vi-
brant colours and Alice-in-Wonderland
caterpillar, had provoked were soon
shattered. At first sight nothing caught
my eye. At the main entrance there is
a stand full of objects from throughout
history related to drug use, from shi-
sha pipes to needles. In general, there
was a great variety in what was being
displayed, from projections to photo-
graphs to old posters used to discourage
the consumption of alcohol. The exhibit
was well thought out; however, the exhi-
bition area was not spacious enough for
all that was on display.
One of the most interesting pieces was
a “Dream Machine” by Brion Gyson.
Placed in a dark room, a spiralling cylin-
der with bright patterns rotates quickly ,
allegedly capable of inducing a trance as
the observer stares at the changing pat-
terns. A series of small pictures hanging
on the wall caught my attention too. The
themes they portrayed were unrelated –
one was a picture of a fractal and the oth-
er one was the image of an Indian god.
After detailed inspection I realised the
paper had tiny squares drilled on it. They
were covered in LSD. Enlightening.
Most of the artwork displayed did not
appeal to me. There were a few video
installations but only one person at a
time could listen to them, which made
it unpractical given the popularity of the
exhibit. There was also a huge sculp-
ture representing an opium pipe, which
was actually pretty tacky. One wall was
covered with three diagrams of a spider
web. Each one had been knitted by a
spider under the influence of a different
drug. Curious, informative but not very
visually attractive.
An Indian God printed on paper and covered in LSD, how ‘New-age’
Rocío Molia Atienza
Majid Al-Khalil recounts a book
which is called the most influential
Latin American text of all time.
Tell us about your favourite book in 300-400 words
and send it to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High art awaits at
the Wellcome Trust
“Many years later, as he faced the firing squad, Col-
onel Aureliano Buendía was to remember that dis-
tant afternoon when his father took him to discover
ice...” These are the first words which catapult the
reader into Marquez’s vibrant imagination and of a
novel that has stayed with me from the moment I
finished reading it.
The novel chronicles the lives, hopes and failures
of seven generations of the Buendía family and the
town they build on the banks of an Amazonian river.
In the book’s “magic realism” the line between our
normal world and the supernatural is blurred, lead-
ing to a setting which seems very like our own, albe-
it the odd ghost or insomnia epidemic, all of which
are portrayed with characteristic nonchalance and
casualness. Coupled to this is the fluidity of time;
while some characters are impossibly old and it
can rain for years on end, there are contrasting mo-
ments when Marquez dismisses decades with a few
strokes of his pen. This dreamlike and subjective
way in which the various stories are told hint at the
way we perceive our own lives: looking back at the
multitude of events which unfold over the novel, it is
stressed that memories are fleeting impressions of
moments, an incomplete picture.
At the centre of Marquez’s writings are always his
characters. Richly developed and too numerous to
keep track of, it is easy to become lost. Eventually
comes the realisation that this is not too great a
problem. New generations of children mature only
to commit the same acts as their ancestors – the
circularity of history is obviously important to Mar-
quez.
Present in the novel is page after page of vivid
description and imagery, much of it devoted to his
character’s love lives. The style is romantic but not
clichéd. Rather than Hollywood style heroes over-
coming obstacles to find eternal love and happi-
ness, Marquez’s characters are much more flawed,
and much more human. Would be heroes are struck
down by the size of their own egos (and sometimes
libidos) amidst echoes of Nietzsche’s “will to pow-
er”. Those who endure solitude find that it is stron-
gest when they are surrounded by others – a theme
more relevant now than ever, in our world of urban
alienation. Finally, the would-be poetic bubble is of-
ten punctured by the author’s own sharp, if seem-
ingly crude, wit.
To me, this is a magnificent work. Despite what
the title suggests it is as much a celebration of the
full richness of human emotion rather than just soli-
tude. Bravado, ecstasy, love and blind lust are all
portrayed within, along with their consequences. To
anyone who is even thinking about reading it, do not
hesitate a moment longer.
by
Gabriel García Márquez
1000 years
of solitude
Overall, the exhibition had too much
of a factual side, reducing the few art
pieces on display to historical proofs of
drug use throughout history. For those
interested in expanding their knowledge
of drugs it is definitely a must-see; but
for those of you who look for shocking
art, the West End galleries or the Saatchi
might better suit your taste.
‘High Society’ at the Wellcome Gal-
lery until the 27th of February.
“They were covered
in LSD. Enlightening.”
Friday 18 february 2011
‘Blotter Art’, Constance Little

