My first experience with Music Tech Soci-
ety resulted in internal haemorrhaging. I was
a fresher and just arrived at uni after a par-
ticularly interesting summer. It was Friday of
Fresher’s Week and Music Tech were doing a
night at dB’s (as it was still called then). This
was also my first exposure to dubstep, a vis-
ceral, primitive and funkin’ groovy style of
dance music which I had no idea about until
then. I had lost my friends somewhere in the
crowds of the Union but was drunk enough to
keep myself entertained so I proceeded to shel-
ter myself in the smoke and lights of our club.
The next morning in the shower I noticed I had
a black blotch the size of a watch under my foot
– the result of a night intoxicated on beer and
good music.
It’s hard to find good dance music. Usually
it’s in small clubs on the other side of town or
in other towns altogether. You certainly won’t
get any at Picadilly Circus. My summer had
been filled with free techno parties in the parks
of Brussels (Piknik Elektronik, Soirée Gazon,
Tea Time...) and I was elated to find people at
uni who shared similar tastes. Being a member
of the society now, I may be somewhat biased
in saying the Music Tech nights at the Union
club are probably the best ones we ever have;
MUSIC
FELIX
28
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Yuck
Yuck
Fat Possum
2011
It feels way too early to start listening to 90’s revival
music. But then again, so many great bands like No
Age, Male Bonding or Japandroids draw heavily on
Sub Pop and the Seattle grunge scene as a core in-
spiration for their music – albeit channeling the en-
ergy of 90’s rock with modern experimentation. Yuck
can be seen as pertaining to the same bloodline
as the aforementioned bands, but if you close your
eyes and listen to their self-titled debut throughout, I
swear it’s like travelling back in time. For me though
it is even more interesting that this record is being
released in 2011: Yuck have made an album full of
noisy pop songs, displaying a clear talent for writing
hooks (see ‘Holing Out’), but they chose to inter-
sperse these with beautifully-crafted acoustic songs.
The true quality of this album is not that it takes you
back to another time, but rather that the music Yuck
is crafting is timeless. The infectious nature of the
songs means that there is no use for modern tricks.
Just down-to-earth, quality songwriting. Greg Power
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
19.02: Felix Music Night
Metric, Imperial College Union
Saturday 19th February 2011 (TOMORROW!)
In case you were not aware, we are throwing a musi-
cal megafest tomorrow night. It’s going to be FREAK-
ING AWESOME and there is no excuse for not show-
ing up. Entry is a mere £3, and for that measly price
you get to watch eight (that’s right, eight!) brilliant
acts. We believe this is a great way to give some ex-
posure to the great student musicians that Imperial
tends to forget about. Three bands from Jazz n’ Rock
Society (including Post-Indie Tech Punk headliners
Vetoes), four Music Tech acts (one of which is going
to be an insane experimental electronic improvisa-
tion crew) and one special non-Imperial guest (the
devilish psych-pharaoh Raath-Mon-Tet) are gearing
up to blow your collective minds. Greg Power
A
fter years of scouring through
the Necronomicon and the Dead
Sea Scrolls searching for proof
of the existence of the mythical
extraterrestrial pharaoh known
as Raath-Mon-Tet, a friend suggested I should
Google him.
I had not thought of that. I guess I just did not
expect to find one of the most infamous evil
spirits to ever rule the Galaxy on the friggin’
net. But it turns out he does have a webpage.
I’ll be damned.
I contacted the Nommon pharaoh Raath-
Mon-Tet, harbinger of chaos, through his de-
lightful “Ask-A-Pharaoh” page. Little did I
know that I had in fact unleashed a plague of
biblical proportions upon Imperial College, un-
der the form of a psycore/experimental techno
closing set at Felix’s Music Night, 19.02....
What is Raath-Mon-Tet’s story?
Since possessing a boy of your species, Raath-
Mon-Tet has had many attempts at enslaving
the human race using soundwaves. Notable at-
tempts include a guerilla gig at your popular
Trafalgar Square filmed on SkyArts, where the
über-death-psy magnifier unfortunately never
arrived, and the most recent of the heralded
ALAN nights (www.wearealan.com) where
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
Music Tech bring the noise to 19.02
1. James Blake
2. Radiohead
3. Kanye West
4. Gorillaz
5. Daft Punk
6. Muse
7. Arcade Fire
8. Rihanna (????)
9. David Bowie
10. Caribou
but I’ve thought that way ever since Fresher’s,
and until they get Squarepusher (Imperial
Mathematics alumnus?!) in, it will probably
stay that way.
So much for the nocturnal frolicking. It’s
Monday evenings in the Union basement that
really make it what it is. That’s when we get
together and make music of our own. There’s
room for the DJs as well as the producers and
enough big and shiny equipment to make ev-
eryone feel like a kid in a candy shop. I my-
self am more of a maker than a player and
the wealth of production know-how which is
bounced around during sessions is truly invalu-
able. Sure we can sometimes geek out about
LFOs, breaks and bass lines but then again
we’re at Imperial aren’t we? Better bass lines
than Bessel functions if you ask me... Oh and
when sessions are over we get to listen to our
own songs on the Metric sound system! If
that’s not an eargasm, I don’t know what is.
Felix’s 19.02 this Saturday will be the first
Music Tech performance in Metric since it
opened earlier this year and I must say I am
‘totally stoked’ about bringing the good sounds
out to the people. There will be two DJ sets and
one live improvisation which is a first for the
society. To kick off the night, Algo Ritmico
(host of IC Radio’s experimental music broad-
cast The Big Racket!) will cook up a mixture
of chilled psychedelia, infectious afrobeat
and psychotropic vibrations to settle every-
one in nice and cozy. After all the bands have
brought the funk (Eleven 37s), gone through
the blues (Tin Can 44s) and rocked it side to
side (Vetoes), a back-to-back set from Chainz
and Snatch DJs will shake things up with a
mash-up of DIY tuneage, dubby steps and high
voltage electro. To explore the more abstract
dimensions of live sound, three of our mem-
bers have clustered together to form an as-yet-
unnamed ensemble for a hazy concoction of
improvised electronic music, before the head-
liners kick out the jams.
On a more personal note, it’s great to see Im-
perial’s homegrown talent getting a bit of rec-
ognition on home turf. I’ve never understood
why the Union pays big money for BBC Radio
1 DJs and ‘hot butter’ live acts when its own
students could pull off a more eclectic and inti-
mate affair by their own means. Surely getting
the students more involved in the events at the
Union would do away with the lingering apa-
thy so many are so quick to mention. After all,
it’s called the Student Union for a reason.
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Bow before your alien
overlord, puny Earthlings!
An exclusive interview with techno-deity Raath-Mon-Tet
spirits channelled through a sacrificed alien
also failed to brainwash your kind.
What does Raath-Mon-Tet want from us
puny Earthlings?
Your resources, your bodies and your minds,
but not your souls. Did anyone ever tell you
earthlings that your souls taste like mayon-
naise? Intergalactically speaking, smooth may-
onnaise is the second worst tasting thing, only
just falling behind chunky mayonnaise.
Why is Raath-Mon-Tet’s music so goddamn
loud?
Have you ever tried to harness the willpower
of an entire race during a DJ set? You need
to crank your tunes pretty loud for the whole
world to hear them. Besides, listening to quiet
music can seriously damage your credibility.
What is Raath-Mon-Tet’s favourite song to
play?
The Imperial March, Darth Vader’s theme from
Star Wars. The movie was good but Darth was
a much more fun guy in reality. The reason I
moved from that quadrant was because of the
Gungans. Man were those fellas irritating.
Is your dream to perform on a giant floating
pyramid?
Raath-Mon-Tet does not dream, Raath-Mon-
Tet does. And anyway, intergalactic arch-
pharaohs regularly gig on collosal, crystalline
trapezohedrons. Why Raath-Mon-Tet would
stoop to perform on pyramids is beyond Raath-
Mon-Tet’s understanding.
And why in the world should people pay to
see some dude jump up and down in a pha-
raoh mask and poncho anyway??
Raath blinks and interviewer falls to the ground
unconscious.
This interview is adjourned! Raath-Mon-Tet
will sanctify Metric’s sound system tomorrow
night! Don’t miss it! Greg Power
Friday 18 february 2011

