FELIX 29
MUSIC
The 19.02 Playlist
The time is almost upon us
to let our proverbial hair down
and listen to some sick ass
tunes by Imperial musicians.
Here’s a few you can check out
online beforehand to get your-
self in the mood.
Vetoes
Melting Clocks
The Eleven 37s
Straywire
Tin Can 44s
Down By The River
Vetoes
On The Waterfront
The Eleven 37s
Personality
Tin Can 44s
Bad Craziness
Raath-Mon-Tet
Live @Trafalgar Square
Go to
beholdthemachine.com
for links to the songs.
You won’t regret it.
Promise.
Sometimes life just kicks you square in
the balls. It sucks, but it is an intrinsic part
of Mother Nature’s menstrual cycle.Yeah
I know it hurts because it turns out that
chick you liked is actually a total slag.
And that guy you thought was giving you
the eye? He happens to be a sex offender.
Life is full of dissapointment, so you bet-
ter get used to it. What the hell did you
think they invented whiskey for anyway?
But when you’re right at the bottom of
your cesspool of despair, Tin Can 44s are
there to pull you out, give you a kind slap
across the face and drag you along for a
night out on Kingly Street.
I spoke to two of the Tin Cans about
what the Blues means to them, musical
authenticity and what they’ll bring to the
party tomorrow, when they play Felix’s
Music Night, 19.02.
Would you like to introduce your-
selves?
Phil (guitar, vocals): Wait. What if I in-
troduce him, he can introduce me.
Sounds like a plan.
Phil: Ok, this here’s the Big Shot. He
plays percussion for us, and tends to re-
arrange pretty much anything we intend
on doing, pretty much how he wants to
do it right then and we all need to hold
on tight.
Aaron (drums): This is Phil. “The Pow-
er”. “Taylor”. Nah, it’s just Phil. Plays
guitar, vocals in The Tin Can 44s, which
is who we are.
Phil: There was supposed to be someone
else here. Boxcar Joe. Plays harmonica
for us. He’s an actor and creator. Well…
he calls himself that, so it’s not as om-
nipotent as he thinks but… Yeah, he
plays harmonica for us. And fills in any
of the gaps on the Delta lyrics that we’ve
forgotten. That’s us at the minute. And
we’re going through bassists at a pace.
Umm. Having to replace them far too
regularly.
Tin Cans talkin’ Blues
Imperial’s badass Blues barons Tin Can 44s give us some straight
jive talk, promising to push your tushie into full swing at 19.02
Did you guys start out with blues cov-
ers and then move towards your own
songs?
Phil: I always had my own songs that
I always wanted to play, and I used to
write them faster than we would get
them recorded or get them rehearsed
properly. Immediately when we started
playing we found that we needed to play
gigs now, and the kind of joints that we
wanted to play require you to have a
playbook. You have to be able to play
a certain number of standards and not
sound like an idiot.
Aaron: I think we did start off with do-
ing Blues standards and covers, but now
we are writing more original material
and playing that more so instead of the
focus before being: “we’ll try an original
song interspersed within the set”, now
it’s more like we’ll play our own stuff
and then at the end we’ll do a standard
there that everyone knows and loves.
And I think that’s what we enjoy more.
Because it’s hella fun to play the blues
but it’s also much more satisfying and
enjoyable to write your own stuff which
is still inspired by the same sort of thing.
Phil: I found we needed to do what was
effectively the Blues – but a bit more. Be-
cause a lot of the original sounds, origi-
nal structures, they’ve been hammered
out pretty thin by the original guys, who
could run rings around me certainly.
So we needed to do something that
was a bit more – necessarily original.
Because it just wouldn’t be authentic re-
ally, I can’t sing about the Delta, or my
woman dying, or the flood in Tupelo. I
wasn’t there!
Where do you get your inspiration?
Phil: To set out writing a blues is really
forced. Because the process by which
the blues were written were from work
songs from call-and-reply tunes that
were sung even without any music. The
percussion was breaking rocks with a
pick-axe, and a sawblade and a train.
That’s what you had to work with.
So it would be a call and reply: there
would just be the biggest loudest guy
standing there a little bit up on a hill, and
everyone would just shout the line back
to him, and you get some repetition and
natural harmonies and things like that.
That’s a very organic way of doing it.
So if I was to sit down and go: “OK,
that’s a line, and I’m gonna do that
twice, and then I’m gonna go up to the
dominant chord, and then come back
down…” No man. Nobody’s gonna buy
that. You can see all these people who
are going through the motions.
Aaron: I do listen to the blues, obvi-
ously, but my background musically is
a lot more kind of abstract and very sort
of progressive, kind of music. So Phil
can bring stuff in and I’ll completely
change it. Flip everything round. But
we still listen to all those great blues
songs and I think that’s hopefully what
comes through in our playing. Just be-
cause we’re not doing a standard 12-bar
or something, you know the themes that
we’re bringing up, and the way we play,
and the feeling we put into it, hopefully
all of that’s still there.
Phil: I mean certainly the great thing
about the three of us – Boxcar Joe in-
cluded – is that what the three of us do
together, no one of us could have made
up on their own. Boxcar Joe writes his
own stuff, that he doesn’t bring to our
band because he thinks he’s just gonna
mix up the vibe. He writes dirty sea
shanties about big-leg women and, uh…
sailing. He sings that with his harmonica
frame on and his guitar.
Aaron’s there listening to some pro-
gressive shit, in some time signature –
like 9/11 time signature or something.
So when I give these guys a song I could
get it back in any old way, I have no idea,
I can’t predict it. Certainly I write all my
stuff acoustic. But then when it’s gone
through the Tin Can factory, it comes
out a completely different animal.
What does the Blues mean to you?
Aaron: The Blues is when you ain’t
got no money to pay yo house rent, cuz
you’re thinkin evil.
Phil: When you come in your front door,
you hear your backdoor slam. You’re
thinking evil.
Aaron: On a serious note, everyone feels
shit during their life at certain points,
maybe for crap reasons or not. Whatev-
er. Everyone feels down. And the blues
is just a celebration of that, laughing in-
stead of crying, and just a great way to
let it out and feel good. And it’s just a
really enjoyable experience for me.
Phil: The Blues isn’t about moping in
the corner. The Blues is about sitting
on your housetop shirtless with a half-
bottle of rye, shouting at the neighbour,
because he done stole your woman. It’s
that kind of stuff. There’s certainly a lot
of commaraderie in it. When you see
bluesmen talk to each other it’s some-
thing different. It’s like they’ve got a
secret story. That only they know. Only
they know the plot, or only they know
the scene. And they can change the
scripts how they want. It’s this kind of
secrecy, it’s like a little club. It’s a se-
cret handshake, it’s that kind of music.
That’s what the Blues is: mythology.
What will you guys bring to 19.02?
Aaron: People will be fucking dancing
when we’re playing our tunes.
Phil: If people aren’t dancing, I’ll eat
my hat. And I think people will see
that when we play a song, it’s that one
time we played that song. It wasn’t that
we’ve written beat by beat, bar by bar
how it goes.
Aaron: That’s the only time you’ll hear
the song that way.
Phil: The themes are the same, plot’s the
same, characters are the same but the
scene has changed. That’s what you get:
a one time experience.
Greg Power
If you want to share a
mind-blowing playlist send
it in to
music.felix@gmail.com
Tin Can 44s tearing into another blast of blues, minutes before they raided a liquor store and drank all the rye
Friday 18 february 2011

