NEWS
FELIX 3
Friday 18 february 2011
Breakdown of hall
rents revealed
SOLE results show
high satisfaction
The College has recently released re-
sults of the 2010 Autumn Student On-
line Evaluation (SOLE) survey aimed
at measuring undergraduate students'
opinions about the teaching in the first
college term. The results of the survey
are mainly positive, with overall satis-
faction across the College for different
aspects of lecture courses ranging from
84% to 92%. The proportion of students
answering either “good” or “very good”
saw a marked increase from 2009 for all
the questions which had also been asked
that year.
The survey targets students in all
years, apart from medicine, where only
first years are questioned. Participants
are asked to rate to their feelings to-
wards a number of statements using a
five point scale, as well as give written
comments on what they believe should
be improved. The results are reviewed
by all the departments’ Directors of
Undergraduate Studies, and in previous
years have led to changes in courses and
lecturers even being replaced.
The latest SOLE introduced a new
section which questioned all students,
apart from those in the Business School
and Humanities Department, about their
opinions relating to assessment and feed-
back. The results here were more mixed,
suggesting that the problems identified
in the National Student's Survey earlier
last year have not yet all been resolved.
19% of students thought that "the level
of detail received in comments on [their]
work" and "the helpfulness of feedback
in clarifying things [they] did not under-
stand" was poor or very poor. Overall
satisfaction in these areas, however, was
still between 69% and 81%.
The humanities lecture courses were
judged to be some of the best in the col-
lege, with approval ratings of between
88% and 95%. 86% of students rated
“the interest and enthusiasm gener-
ated by the lecturer” as either “good” or
“very good”, the best such result in the
survey.
The department of Earth Science and
Engineering, on the other hand, had
some of the best results in the assess-
ment and feedback section, with satis-
faction levels between 88% and 94%.
Dr Lorraine Craig, the department’s Ac-
ademic Tutor, attributed this success to
"excellent teaching in the department".
The student participation rate in the
survey has been steadily increasing over
the past three years, reaching 67% this
Autumn, making the results reasonably
representative of the student population.
The Mathematics Department saw by
far the largest improvement. Having had
the worst turnout in the last two years
it managed to increase its participation
rate from 41% in 2009 to 67% in 2010.
The head of the department, Dr Emma
McCoy, attributed this success to the de-
partment’s new policy, borrowed from
Electrical Engineering, of "giving extra
printing credit to those who complete
SOLE". She said the success of scheme
meant that it was likely the department
would use it in the future.
As in the previous few years partici-
pation was greatest in the department of
Earth Science and Engineering, with all
of its 229 undergraduates taking part.
Professor Martin Blunt, the department
head Dr Lorraine Craig, whose posi-
tion “combines the roles of Director of
Undergraduate Studies, Admissions Tu-
tor and Senior Tutor". He said that the
department's small size allowed her to
have "a personal rapport" with all the
students. Dr Craig sent out "reminders
to all students to complete the SOLE
survey", which were "reinforced by ev-
ery lecturer during classes". The depart-
ment also discusses how it uses the data
obtained with groups of students from
different years, thereby making sure
they understand the survey's benefits.
This has resulted in excellent participa-
tion rates without the need for additional
incentives such as in Mathematics.
The SOLE survey will take place
again at the end of this term in all de-
partments and in summer for students
taking Chemistry, Civil & Enviromental
Engineering, Earth Science & Engineer-
ing or Life Sciences. Students can view
the full results from the latest survey on
the college website.
Maciej Matuszewski
Halls should not be subsidising alcohol with the
amenities fund argues Union President
The price of university hall accommoda-
tion has come under scrutiny as a sur-
vey is set to be launched by the Union
into how hall rents could be reduced.
The Union has obtained a breakdown
of what makes up the rent and are de-
bating a range of cost-saving measures.
Students are encouraged to take part in
the debate by filling out a questionnaire,
to be released early next week.
Alex Kendall, Imperial College Union
President, said that “the idea [to provide
more information about hall rents] origi-
nally came up because I was surprised
[to find] that first years pay for the fact
that we have free Ethos membership
from their hall rents”. Other costs that
make up the rent include the amenities
fund, cleaning, contract length and war-
dening, as well as other costs like heat-
ing, electricity and internet.
Scrapping the “amenities fund”
that each hall spends on social events
throughout the year such as event tickets,
food and alcohol could save each student
between £81.90 and £122.85 (based on
39 weeks of rent). This comes directly
from hall rents and the exact amount is
decided by each warden. The amenities
fund is also used to promote Wardening
vacancies. If the fund was scrapped hall
events would still take place, but would
no longer be subsidised, therefore cost-
ing more for the people taking part.
It could be argued that this is a fairer
option as the number of places on hall
trips and the amount of food and alcohol
available are often limited, and so some
students can end up subsidising others
whilst reaping no benefits themselves.
Alex Kendall believes it “is a funda-
mental principle that no alcohol should
be funded from the amenities fund. I’m
very interested to hear what students
who don’t drink alcohol, because of
their religious beliefs, think about this
since they’re effectively subsidising
other other people to do so.”
However, Dan Read, Warden of Fal-
mouth and Keogh Halls, argues that
“removing the subsidy from events in
halls would be very damaging to the
communities that live there. Hall events
throughout the year and particularly in
the welcome weeks are extremely popu-
lar and help residents to make friends
and enjoy shared experiences.” He
also suggested that cutting this funding
would make minimal difference to rent
prices anyway as “amenity contribu-
tions only amount to about 1% of rents.”
Ben Cook, a second year Biologist
who lived in Wilkinson hall last year,
also commented that he “would not have
gone to most events if they had not been
subsidised”. Other options such as a
£10 common room charge for each term
have also been suggested.
Reducing the cleaning of communal
areas such as kitchens from every day to
just once a week, and removing clean-
ing of bedrooms entirely could also save
students up to £195 per year. Instead,
cleaning equipment such as vaccuum
cleaners would be provided, like in
many other universities.
Students currently rent rooms in uni-
versity halls for 39 weeks each year
,which includes the Christmas and Eas-
ter holidays. It has been proposed that
four weeks of rent could be saved by
reducing this to 35 weeks if students va-
cated their rooms during the Easter holi-
day. The rooms could then be rented out
to the public as they are in the summer
period. If this were to be implemented,
it would likely to be in only a few halls,
giving students the choice between a
39 week contract or a cheaper 35 week
contract.
These efforts to drive down costs
come as new postgraduate halls in
Clapham Junction costing £235 per
week are set to open in the next aca-
demic year, described by Dan Read as
“an unwise move especially as they will
not have warden cover and thus offer no
pastoral care for students.” The recently
renovated Eastside and Southside halls
also have deluxe single rooms costing
£227.36 per week and premium single
rooms costing £195.37 per week. Alex
Kendall argues that there is not a prob-
lem in providing this more expensive
accommodation. “According to Ac-
commodation Services, all students get
a room in the cost bracket they have
identified, and so there is an argument
saying that some students can afford to
and want to live in more expensive ac-
commodation.”
However, Joe Herbert, a second year
biologist who lived in Wilkinson Hall,
argues that there shouldn’t be as many
deluxe or premium rooms as there are.
“I know a lot of people who were allo-
cated them but didn’t ask for them, and
you don’t get a choice, you take it or
find somewhere else to live.” Dan Read
also added that “the extra features of
these deluxe rooms include a ‘luggage
rack’, so one might wonder if this is re-
ally for the benefit of the students who
stay in halls a full academic year or for
the lucrative summer accommodation
Sophia David
Correction
In the article entitled: “iCon-
nect: Eat for Cheap” (Issue
1481 – 04/02/11) Nigel
Kheng’s name was misspelled
‘Zheng’. Felix apologises for
this typo.
Editor
guests!”
Currently, new students select five
preferred choices from a range of twenty
halls of residence, varying in price from
£55.30 a week for a triple room in Fisher
Hall at Evelyn Gardens to £227.36 per
week for a deluxe single room in East-
side or Southside in Princes Gardens.
However, the university website states
that it is not guaranteed that students
will be allocated one of their preferred
options, meaning students are often left
paying more than they anticipated.
Kendall also warns of the future risk
of losing the cheaper alternatives cur-
rently offered by Imperial. Fisher hall,
students’ cheapest option, is currently
at risk of renovation and being lost as
student accommodation. Kendall argues
that the university should be doing “ev-
erything it can to provide a cheap hall
option close to campus”.
The idea of reducing or scrapping cleaning in halls has been floated as a
reducing the cost of accommodation
Dave Guttridge

