F
I
L
M
‘Down Under’six
feet of earth
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director David Michôd
Screenwriter David Michôd
Cast Ben Mendelsohn, Joel Edgerton,
Guy Pearce, Luke Ford, Jacki Weaver,
Sullivan Stapleton, James Frecheville
Animal Kingdom
John Park
Okay I’ll admit it, I have a massive thing for older women
FELIX
30
his family is constantly challenged, even more
so when Leckie starts targeting the newbie of the
family for information. He is under the watchful
eye of Janine, his scary grandmother who turns
a blind-eye to all of her sons’ criminal activities
whilst she looks to gain as much benefit from
them as possible. She is financially sorted for
life, as long as her sons, who mostly obey her
in ways no grown-up sons would ever do, keep
bringing in the cash.
Animal Kingdom is not just a good “Austral-
ian” film. It’s an absolutely phenomenal crime
drama that is surely in league with similar
themed films that are considered great inAmeri-
can cinema. The intimate family dynamic is
looked at with so much focus and tension that
every time a character even blinks, the audience
is brought to the edge of their seats. Since sever-
al important characters have such volatile minds
and vastly different goals, you have no idea just
where this film will take you, and every interac-
tion with key family members is absolutely cru-
cial to the plot development. It’s a compelling
watch, and superbly paced, with director David
Michôd having the confidence to take his time
in extending various scenes to create as much
suspense as possible. A lot of the scenes are qui-
et, restrained, but hugely effective in building up
the gritty, morally corrupt underground network
of criminals.
In portraying this great tragedy which chroni-
cles the conflict and eventual fall of the proud
family, the exceptional actors do an admirable
job. Frencheville, in his debut performance,
adds a surprising amount of layers and depth
to his character. He’s not someone to warm up
to right away, since he is mostly very distant
and awkward around the “new” members of
his family but as events unfold and he travels
deeper into the criminal activities of this one
family, his inner battle and wake of conscience
“You’ve done some bad things, haven’t you
sweetie?” gently reminds the matriarch of the
Melbourne-based Cody crime family. It’s a mo-
ment of true wonder, as Janine “Smurf” Cody
(Weaver) calmly manipulates her way into the
minds of everyone around her without a flinch.
She casually smiles away, putting on that brave
face, pretending nothing will ever go wrong in
her life with her three criminal sons: Andrew
“Pope” Cody (Mendelsohn), Craig Cody (Sta-
pleton), and Darren Cody (Ford).
Joshua “J” Cody’s (Frencheville) mother was
far from perfect – but even she had enough sense
in her to keep her only son away from her own
mother and siblings who are constantly up to no
good and are in trouble with the law. But after
she dies of a heroin overdose, the 17 year-old J
is left with no choice but to join the relatives he
hasn’t seen for a long time. The oldest, Andrew,
is in hiding with ties to armed robbery, Craig is
dealing drugs with a dirty cop, and Darren is do-
ing whatever his brothers tell him to do. Over
the period of less than a single day, J has quite
suddenly been thrown into a world he knows
very little about.
Blood is spilled and loyalties are tested. As
Leckie (Pearce), a smart detective leading the
police investigation, starts closing in on the vari-
ous members of the Cody family, the role of the
newcomer becomes that much more crucial. J
is asked to steal a car to be used as a setup for
murdering two police officers. J’s dedication to
Classic Cinema
Bicycle Thieves
A man searching for his bike hardly sounds like a
great plot for one of the most beloved films of all
time, but Vittorio De Sica’s 1948 masterpiece is a
beautifully crafted portrayal of suffering and poverty
in post war Rome. Being the definitive Italian Neore-
alist film, Bicycle Thieves has all the anti-Hollywood
touches that made this genre so refreshing. The cast
are all amateurs, the script largely improvised and
the whole film is shot on location.
Lamberto Maggiorani (a factory worker before be-
ing snagged by De Sica for the role of Antonio) plays
a typical down and out Roman, desperate for work,
who assembles every morning with his fellow unem-
ployed begging for a job from a city official. Fortunate-
ly his run of bad luck is over and he gets a job putting
up glossy film posters around town. However his bad
luck soon returns after his bike is stolen on his first
day of work. Accompanied by his plucky young son,
he spends the next day pounding the pavements
searching for the precious bike which his livelihood
depends on.
The beauty of this film is the relationship between
Antionio and his son Bruno (A mesmerising perfor-
mance by Enzo Staiola). Bruno idolises his father,
regardless of his inability to provide for his family
and over the course of the day the young boy learns
the invaluable lesson that life is simply unfair. In one
scene, Antonio agonises over the hopelessness of
his situation and strikes his son but quickly jumps to
conclusions after witnessing another person nearly
drown in the Tiber. But his relief after finding Bruno
alive and well quickly dissipates upon realisation
that he is no closer to finding his bike. The social
commentary is not subtle, this is a Marxist parable
after all, however an exchange of glances between
Bruno and another child in a restaurant is remark-
ably charming.
Being a Realist film, there is predictably no happy
ending. Against all the odds, Antonio recognises
his bike and after tracing the thief to a brothel he
finds himself confronting the local gangsters. A lo-
cal policeman admits he can’t do anything and in
absolute dispair Antonio steals another bicycle but
is caught straight away, Although his sympathetic
victim doesn’t press charges, the damage has been
done and in the famous heartbreaking ending Anto-
nio takes his distraught son home, his heroic opinion
of his father shattered. Ed Knock
It’s an absolutely
phenomenal crime drama
that is surely in league
with similar themed films.
“
that
ence
ce
ever-
ver-
minds
minds
a just
a just
erac-
erac-
It’s an abs
It’s an ab
phenome
phenome
”
crime drama
rime drama
n league
n league
emed films.
ed films.
is shown subtly. Of the three criminal brothers,
Meldelsohn, playing the eldest, gives the most
frightening performance. Something isn’t quite
right with this guy; he comes off as psychoti-
cally detached and it is unsettling to see the bril-
liant Mendelsohn in so many scenes. But since
he is one of the major characters of the film,
we’ll just have to settle with being afraid of him
throughout.
The true revelation here however, is Weaver,
who has been the talk of Hollywood for nab-
bing a surprise Oscar nomination. She shows
her love can be limitless – when she decides
to share it that is – but can also be taken away
in a heart-beat, as soon as she senses imminent
danger or threat to her little empire. She is the
monstrous female in the background, pulling
the strings behind the scenes, so everything can
work to her advantage. Her words are piercing
enough to get under your skin, but she delivers
them with such calmness that her detachment
alone is enough to give you shivers.
It’s encouraging to see something from Aus-
tralia is getting its much-deserved international
recognition. It won’t have a huge sales impact,
but for those of you seeking a taut, finely writ-
ten, confident and brilliantly performed crime
drama, this is no doubt on the same standard as
the more flashy, high-budget U.S. thrillers.
Tuesday 22nd February
iCU Cinema – AGM & FILM TRIVIA PUB
QUIZ 6PM – Free/£1
Megamind – £3/4 (members/non-
members)
Union Concert Hall, Beit Quad
EVENTS
Friday 18 february 2011

