TELEVISION
felix
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
Veronika McQuadeova
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Stargate SG-1:Alove story
T
he first science fiction television
show I ever saw and the series
that got me interested in the en-
tire genre was Stargate SG-1, the
follow-up to Roland Emmerich’s
forgettable 1994 film.
The film followed the US military discov-
ering how to operate the Stargate, an ancient
device which allows instantaneous transporta-
tion between planets, which was discovered
several decades earlier, buried in Egypt. The
TV series picks up this story, with the unearth-
ing of the Gate allowing the Goa’uld, an evil
alien race which ruled Earth thousands of years
ago under the assumed identities of various
civilizations’ deities, to rediscover the planet.
The military therefore sets up a number of ‘SG
teams’ to go on missions through the Stargate
to find means of defending against the enemy.
The show follows the exploits of SG-1, led by
Colonel Jack O’Neil (Richard Dean Anderson)
and consisting of polymath scientist Captain
Samantha Carter (Amanda Tapping), archae-
ologist Daniel Jackson (Michael Shanks) and
Teal’c (Christopher Judge), a defector from the
Goa’uld armies.
At first glance there seems to be little to
praise in this series. Most villains are entirely
two dimensional, everyone on alien planets
seems to speak English and the heroes defeat
two evil alien races introduced later on in the
series by genocide, the moral implications of
which are not even touched upon. These prob-
lems, however, are nothing compared to the
show’s strengths.
The main characters are some of the best I’ve
ever seen on television. I can relate to all of
them in one way or another and all are both
likable and show some depth. My favourite
must be Colonel O’Neill, a deeply professional
yet light-hearted man who conceals the trauma
of his past military experience and of his son
dying after accidentally shooting himself with
O’Neill’s gun. He is the show’s main source of
humour, its unique selling point. It is always
present, with O’Neill ready to point out how
clichéd the villains’ actions are, no matter how
desperate the situation, yet it is never over-
played. The show only devolves into outright
comedy in its 200th special episode, with the
show’s creators being careful not to allow it to
overshadow the drama at other times.
The overall story is somewhat weaker and
less detailed than that of shows like Babylon 5
or the new Battlestar Galactica. It is far ‘light-
er’, and you can watch an episode just for the
sense of adventure as the main characters ex-
plore a planet. This is not to say that Stargate’s
plot is bad: the characters take a long time to
defeat the technologically superior Goa’uld
and their other enemies and do so in a logical
way. There are also very few of the deus-ex-
machina endings of the type seen so often on
Star Trek.
What We Watched...
Give it up for the ‘Easy Crew’–- “der to make de bad
tings good” – Rastamouse, Scratchy and Zooma in
CBeebies’ new series titled Rastamouse. The show
seems to be popular with adults too, with the widely
held theory that ‘cheese’ actually means ‘marijuana’.
Refreshingly, the mice are puppets in stop-motion,
rather than CGI like the rest of children’s TV these
days. It’s a pity that their English grammar is akin to
that of an ill-educated rap-star, but the fact that they
all sound like Lenny Henry more than makes up for it.
If you’re really pissed and bored it’ll be the funniest
thing you’ve seen since Susan Boyle.
President Wensleydale (seemingly erroneously
dressed as a policemouse – trouserless too of
course) often enlists the help of the Easy Crew to get
to the bottom of Grove Town’s petty crimes, which
are always punished with what seems to be com-
munity service rather than custodial sentences. The
subliminal message of all this is bound to create a
generation of gangsta-speaking, car-stealing, no-trou-
ser-wearing people who expect to say sorry and paint
some walls to atone for their crimes.
Colonel Jack O’Neil: Wise-guy glower king
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday If you missed it...
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
The Beauty of Books
This episode features Illustrated
books, for the simpler of you lot.
BBC4, 8.30pm
Toughest place to be...
...a bus driver. (see “what we
watched”) It’s Manilla, apparently.
BBC2, 9pm
Aliens
If like me you haven’t seen this,
you can join me in catching up
Film 4 , 9.00pm
Treme
Drama about the Katrina after-
math by the team behind the Wire
Sky Atlantic, 10.15pm
Too Fast To Be a Woman
The fascinating story of athlete
Caster Semenya
BBC2, 7pm
How Drugs Work...
Ecstacy. Vital for the Felix team
preparing for the Daily (LOLJKS)
BBC3, 9pm
10 o’Clock Live
It’s gotten better since the awful
first episode
C4, 10pm
Rastamouse
The newest kids’ TV show for
adults to reference ironically
iPlayer
What to watch this week
Maciej Matuszewski tells of his first time with Sci-Fi
Stargate SG-1 lasted ten seasons and, as most
shows of that length, it did eventually begin to
decline. For me this happened during seasons
nine and ten. The show’s creators had thought
that it was going to be cancelled and so had giv-
en season eight a very satisfying ending which
tied up most of its loose threads, with one of
the last episodes even being called “Threads”.
Rather than promoting the few unresolved mi-
nor plot elements to main plot status in when
they learned the show had been reprieved,
they introduced a new, even more powerful,
adversary and even tried to shoehorn it into the
existing continuity. This felt completely con-
trived and, despite all that they had achieved,
the characters were essentially left back where
they had started: facing an immensely power-
ful enemy race with little chance of success.
Even worse, this was also the time when Rich-
ard Dean Anderson decided to leave the show.
The remaining cast could probably have man-
aged alone but it was decided instead to intro-
duce Lieutenant Colonel Cameron Mitchell,
played by Ben Browder. He was simply boring,
which would have been tolerable if the writers
had not been trying so hard to make him fill
O’Neill’s shoes. The comparison just helped to
emphasise what the series had lost. Even worse
he took away attention, as well as the well de-
served sole command of the team, from the far
more interesting Carter, who had herself risen
to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel by this time.
On the other hand this was also the time when
Claudia Black’s Vala Mal Doran, who had ap-
peared in one episode earlier on, joined the
team. She was the polar opposite of Mitchell:
very funny and, as a compulsive liar and ex-
thief, a type of person we had never before
had on the team, with all the exciting possi-
bilities that this entailed. Together with a few
great episodes, such as “Bounty”, and the still
very good remainder of the original SG-1, she
helped save the last two seasons.
Stargate SG-1 is far from the best science fic-
tion show out there, especially its later episodes.
It is, however, one of the most fun shows, and a
brilliant introduction to the genre.
Welcome to the TV-obsessed
world of James Simpson
This week’s Hustle was particularly good, as the
team’s con nearly falls apart when Ash twats his
face and ends up in hospital, developing an unusual
condition which stops him telling lies (something of
a problem for a professional con-artist). Predictably
everything works out when he twats himself for a
second time and his lying ability is restored.
The first episode in the BBC’s Toughest Place
to be a... followed paramedic Angie Dymott as she
spends two weeks in Guatemala City – probably one
of the world’s most violent places outside of Max Mo-
seley’s head. More used to dealing with old people’s
heart attacks and kitchen accidents, Angie struggles
to keep her horrified reactions to herself at the sight
of so many gang stabbings and shootings.
If like me, you stayed in and did nothing this Val-
entines’ Day (sobs), you might have seen The Worst
Place to be Gay on BBC3. This rather odd documen-
tary was presented by Radio 1 DJ Scott Mills who
travels to Uganda and meets, amongst others, the
Preacher who thinks that homosexuality should be
punished by the death penalty. Mills tries a witch-
doctor’s cure for homosexuality, which consists of
his partially naked self being wiped over with a wet
chicken. After this ordeal, Mills proclaims that he
feels ‘dirtier than before’. We are also treated to a
few pearls of wisdom from the people on the street
– “I was asked to be gay once, I refused”. I think he
may have misunderstood the concept slightly.
It’s not hair, his head is actually that shape...
Friday 18 february 2011
32

