FOOD
FELIX 33
T
here are many reasons why
we eat, sometimes we eat
to fill that rumbling stom-
ach — a purely physiologi-
cal requirement, but other
times, we eat for our hearts and (corny
as can be, I know), our souls. Many of
us are rather methodical about food,
treating food as an invariant, a necessity
to tick off the daily list. I’m not saying
that it is wrong to have such a pragmatic
view about food, but it is rather a shame;
it is untapped potential. No, foodies
like us are not food snobs. We appreci-
ate food (sometimes obsessively) but
we don’t expect everyone to treat food
with as much intimacy as we do. It is
extremely unfortunate if we are thought-
less about eating though.
More often that not, it is not just the
food; it is the act of eating and the sto-
ries we build around food; it is the gath-
ering of friends around a table and their
leaving hours later. Food is disarming, it
makes everyone more receptive.
Food should be more than mere sus-
tenance, it is more than just fuel for the
body — food can feed us in so many
other enriching ways. Life would be so
much more vivid if we take a daily ritual
and turn it into a celebration. If we need
to eat everyday, why not make an effort
to make eating enjoyable? It magni-
fies the moments we find joy in, and it
heightens the festivity of daily life.
The smell of roasted potatoes conjures
images of Christmas past, and the nu-
anced fragrances of freshly brewed tea
is lubricant for conversation — it is al-
chemy of the highest order. The velvety
smoothness of a crème brulée screams
indulgence, the heady scents of a beef
stew signal the start of the chilly months
and a tart made from plump and flavour-
ful stone-fruits, so effortlessly charm-
ing. We have five senses, so use them.
Eat to live? Live to eat?
Chinhua Yap implores you to enjoy the finer details of food
maria klärner/flickr
Who’d have thought? A toffee apple is another way to apply lipstick, albeit it may require some skill...
The moments shared alongside food
evoked by the mere whiff of familiar
smells and the taste of shared memories.
The simple act of having eggs (over-
easy, please) for breakfast instead of
cereal (again) can make every morning
feel like a luxurious weekend — food
can be transformative.
Enjoy every mouthful: appreciate the
textural adventure, the contrast in fla-
vours and the intensity of the moment.
Every meal can be a bookmark in your
autobiography, and you can indulge in
as many dog-eared pages as you’d like.
Remind yourself to consciously scribe
food experiences into your memory. It
is like making an inventory, but not for
bolts and screws, rather, for a box of his-
tories waiting to be rediscovered and for
indulging and celebrating with.
Yes, I’m celebrating — I’m having a
hot cup of tea and a gently warmed up
scone. It is glorious. I live to eat.
Friday 18 february 2011
After having a long, drawn out and in-
dulgent dinner, what does one have
whilst engaging in sophisticated con-
versation and to cleanse the palate after
the cheese board? To continue drinking
wine simply lacks imagination, besides
it wouldn’t be best suited to aid diges-
tion. Fortunately a whole genre of drink
has been developed over the past several
hundred years purely for this purpose, I
am of course writing about the digestif.
Typically these beverages are in the
form of sweet, yet deceptively strong
(usually 40%, or more) liqueurs though
there are more bitter alternatives avail-
able and fortified wines, such as port,
which are often drunk in the same set-
ting. We’ll look at the former for simplic-
ity. Despite how delicious these liqueurs
may be, I wouldn’t recommend one to
binge drink large quantities of them,
purely for financial reasons of course.
Gran Marnier
A personal favourite of mine, this co-
gnac-based orange liqueur has a beau-
tiful gold orange tint. Its flavour hails
from the peel of bitter oranges. If juices
were used then it wouldn’t have the
same sweet taste. The uses of this drink
go further than a digestif. When eating
poffertjes (small Dutch pancakes), it is
accompanied by icing sugar and butter.
It is used in cocktails such as the Dirty
Harry, which I believe is Clint East-
wood’s favourite.
Cointreau
Gran Marnier’s dark and mysterious
brother. This triple sec is completely
colourless with a lighter taste; where as
Gran Marnier has a deeper, orange fla-
vour. It is made from sweet and bitter
oranges.
Chartreuse
Possibly the most famous herbal liqueur
of all; I often think of this as Listerine
that you can swallow. Usually seen in
its green form, it can also be yellow, and
is made by monks in the Grande Char-
treuse Monastery, near Grenoble. Best
enjoyed on an Alpine chalet balcony.
Drambuie
This scotch liqueur, flavoured with
honey is, as legend has it, a product of
a secret recipe given to the rescuer of
Bonnie Prince Charlie. The main use of
the beverage is introducing youngsters
to the taste of whisky, thus is very, very
dangerous.
Limoncello
Generally liked, this Italian lemon li-
queur has become more popular in re-
cent years and is commonly served in
restaurants. Unlike the other beverages
mentioned so far, Limoncello must be
served ice cold, so if you have a bottle at
home then put it in the freezer now. You
can very easily make this one at home
with vodka, sugar and lemon peel/ zest.
Sloe Gin
Armies of housewives across the
country must have felt redundant when
Gordon’s started manufacturing sloe
gin. The making of sloe gin is one of
those quaint great British institutions,
which I for one, admire. Once the sloe
(blackthorn) berries have been picked,
each berry must be pricked and placed
in a container with gin and sugar. Sugar
is necessary to infuse the flavours into
the gin. The infusion takes several
months to a year, needing a vigorous
shake every now and again. The fruit
must be extracted once ready.
You can make homemade liqueur with
any fruit of your choice, sugar and a
neutral spirit, though how it’s served can
vary. In countries such as Holland, the
liqueur isn’t left to mature for very long
and is served with the fruit. It is more
common in England to drink the liqueur
by itself.
Ingredients:
· Eggs (2-3 per person)
· Some butter
· Seasoning
Time: ~25 minutes.
Impress your friends! Amaze your
guests! Elevate your boring omelette
ten levels in classiness and tastiness by
making Une Omelette Soufflée! Anyone
and everyone can make an omelette but
this soufflé can cement your position as
future king or queen of the kitchen.
Separate the eggs into two bowls,
ensuring the bowl for the egg whites is
completely clean. Add a little salt to the
egg whites and whisk until soft white
peaks are formed, slightly less whisking
than the amount required for a meringue
is the optimum.
To the yolks add a splash of water
(approx. 10ml per egg), a sprinkling
of salt and pepper and your favourite
herb (rosemary or thyme are excellent).
Whisk until a layer of bubbles sits atop
the yellow liquid.
Very gently (with a silicone spatula
or wooden spoon), fold the whites into
the yolks a little at a time. Don't mix the
mixture too much, separate white and
yellow patches should still be visible.
In a large frying pan, on a high heat,
melt enough butter to coat the bottom
of the pan (too much will cause the om-
elette to deep fry). Now turn on the grill
for later. Pour the omelette mixture into
the pan and let it cook for about 4-5 min-
utes until the bottom forms a crust. The
top should still be wobbly and bubbly.
Quickly move the pan from the hob
to the grill (dilly-dallying will cause the
soufflé to sink). Cook until the top has a
lightly golden crust and serve immedi-
ately. Serve with bacon or caramelized
onions, but definitely do not serve with
cheese.
Soufflé Omelette
by Stephen Smith
When the
Dinner’s Over
by Christian Franke
Franck Tourneret/flickr
This week’s
iConnect deals
Bugis Street Restaurant
25% off
Cafe Forum 20% off
Perfect Pizza 50% off
Go to iconnectimperial.com
for more details
razmatazern/flickr

