GAMES
FELIX 35
It’s the Eye of the Tiger... but I don’t need it
Friday 18 february 2011
I
s Survivor’s 80s classic ‘Eye of
the Tiger’ the sweatiest song of
all time? Whilst Elvis can take
credit for millions of broken
teenage hearts, and Barry White
for millions of unplanned children, Sur-
vivor can take pride in being responsible
for a sea of sweat lost by inspired gym-
goers since Rocky III in 1982. Did you
ever wonder why the Pacific Ocean only
appears on maps made since the 1990s
(maybe a lie)? Well, now you know
where it came from.
But I don’t need it. Before setting
off to pump iron yesterday it was not
a Rocky training montage I watched to
get me psyched, nor Al Pacino’s Inches
speech, but the Deus Ex 3 trailer in all its
cyber-badass glory. Thus, like the genius
of logic I am, I can conclude this article
early, having demonstrated conclusively
that gaming is not an inherently lazy and
fattening past time. Video gaming has a
huge cast of heroes, its hulking space-
marines and lithe ninjas that inspire my
fitness hits as much as anything else.
Wait, you find it weird to use these
fake folk as examples? But is it any
stranger than actors strapping on fake-
ab-packs and smearing on body grease
for 300’s phoney Spartan army? Or the
droves of people who signed up to mar-
tial arts classes after witnessing The Ma-
trix’s fantastical fighting? Or a teenage
girl’s neurotic comparisons to touched-
up fashion photography? It’s just psy-
chology, yo, the power of exaggerating
the normal. Reach for the moon and all
that. Check out Cammy’s abs in Street
Fighter and feel your flabby belly curl
inwards in shame.
Talking of which, she has fairly im-
pressive tricep definition as well, though
not as ripped as Ryu’s when busting out
one of his spectacular hadokens. In fact,
I would go so far as to say that one of
the main draws of Street Fighter is its
depiction of the fighters; the fluidity of
their animation and heft of their impacts.
In its over-the-top, fantastical way it is a
spectacular celebration of human move-
ment and physique, and the one-on-one
drama of fighting sports.
So there, I’m done. Point proven. I
might as well fill the rest of the column
space with pictures of my own insanely
chiselled abs.
But I can’t really leave it at that
(there’s not enough space here to do
justice to my abs for a start): Bulging
biceps, graceful animation, dynamic an-
gles, swelling soundtracks, lean charac-
ter design; these are all parts of gaming’s
multimedia mongrel appeal but these
things aren’t the exclusive territory of
gaming, are they? And yet there is a dif-
ference, that’s for sure.
So I posit: There is no doubt that
those Rocky films, soaked in the visual
paraphernalia of boxing, are a great cin-
ematic homage to the sport. But in Street
Fighter we can feel the drama of split-
second strategy changes and sudden
bursts of action ourselves. After racking
up an embarrassing amount of hours on
learning its depths and button-pressing
combos into my subconscious, I realise
why people treat it as a sport unto itself.
And now I think about it, that’s sort of
the point. Deus Ex 3’s trailer may get me
hankering for some futuristic fisticuffs,
but the credit still goes to a video and
not the actual game. Street Fighter on
the other hand inspires me with its ac-
tual gameplay. And in being interactive,
it does so in a different way, one at times
more seamless with my normal view on
the world.
I am not of course saying that games
can replace real sports (yes fat man,
even your Wii Fit), or vice-versa. They
are both two discrete things, and Street
Fighter is more focussed on being Street
Fighter than any kind of real fight simu-
lator. But gaming’s interactive nature is
unique amongst other forms of enter-
tainment, and when I go to kick-boxing
it is the hard-earned defence reflexes
and attack combos of the game I am re-
Guitar Hero comes to a timely demise
On February 9th, Activision announced
they were discontinuing the Guitar Hero
franchise, and as a result, their planned
2011 Guitar Hero title was also can-
celled. Activision cited “declining inter-
est in the music genre” as their reason,
a phenomenon which is quite possibly
down to an almost completely saturated
market.
Since the release of Guitar Hero III:
Warriors of Rock in 2007 (the first Gui-
tar Hero game not to be developed by
Harmonix – who now make competitor
Rock Band), the two franchises have
published 15 different titles between
them (excluding mobile versions and
DJ Hero). This equates to more than
one release every three months on aver-
age – an astounding statistic. But each
new iteration generally offered little in
terms of new functionality – instead, the
main purpose was just to add new songs
for the user to play. Add to that the hun-
dreds of songs that can be bought from
each franchise’s online catalogue and it
becomes a distinct possibility that the
games start to compete with others from
their own series.
Maybe customers became dissatisfied
with having to splash out £40 - £50 on
each new offering (plus the initial cost
of the plastic peripherals), and decided
to just stick to the games they already
owned, topping up the songs they could
play with downloaded ones if they got
bored. If this is indeed the case, then
Guitar Hero was always going to suf-
fer, as Rock Band has a far vaster down-
loadable content library. It could also be
partially down to the ever-present reces-
sion – people’s spending habits have
changed, and a new disc for 80 or so
songs doesn’t make the cut.
So what does this mean for the future
of the music game market? It’s definite-
ly a shame straight from the off – I’ve
been a big fan of the genre since Guitar
Hero III, and I’m disappointed to see the
series go. But in the long run, it’s pos-
sible that this announcement may have a
bigger impact than it at first seems.
There has never been a clear cut “bet-
ter” game between the two series, and
this required both developers to work
hard on new features that would encour-
age gamers to buy their product over
their rival’s. This, like any healthy com-
petition, was advantageous for the con-
sumer, as they were always getting the
best deal for their money – if either com-
pany got complacent with their game
they would lose out on sales. Now that
Guitar Hero is gone, Rock Band has no-
one to push them to constantly improve
their games, and make sure they sign the
right deals to get the best songs, which
may end up as detrimental to us players.
The future of Rock Band has also
seemed a bit murky recently, with
Viacom (the owner of published MTV
Games) selling Harmonix for the
princely sum of fifty dollars. However,
Harmonix have assured gamers that this
won’t affect them.
Whatever the result, it’s a sad day for
fans of the series everywhere.
Chris Bowers
minded of, more than any Karate Kid or
Ong-Bak.
Because most of all, gaming’s inter-
activity makes it infectious. It keeps a
hold on my mind long after the console
has been turned off. It can transform my
text-books into Tetris bricks and rub-
bish skips into potential hiding places
(in case the guards see me, innit). Oth-
ers use headphones to pump out their
Eye of the Tiger and add a baseline of
cinematic drama to their life. I, with my
poor game-addled mind, instead acti-
vate a sort of game-world visor at will,
transforming my view like some mental
‘Lens of Truth’. It is my personal level
up to pump up my muscles and push
through pain. Whether music or my
game-o-vision, rousing speeches or cou-
rageous quotes, they’re all just illusions
of entertainment we use to simplify the
world and maximise our effect, sporting
or otherwise; our very own media-made
and steroid-free performance enhancing
products.
So maybe you want to call me a geek
for taking the whole thing so seriously,
for running that little faster when I go
past a bus like it was some hulking co-
lossus, or climbing bollards as if in some
cut-price Mirror’s Edge.
Go on, call me a geek. But if you do,
I’ll Shoryuken your ass.
Do you know how Omar Hafeez-Bore got those abs? By playing video games!
“It is my personal
level up to pump up
my muscles and push
through pain”
Damn, now I can’t even be an armchair rockstar

