TRAVEL
36
TravelEditor: Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wishing You Were Here
T
ragic tourism perils
Student Flights is a trading name of internation-
ally renowned Australian travel group Flight Centre
Limited. Their philosophy is “anyone, anywhere,
anytime”, although they predominantly cater for the
youth travel market, offering great flight deals to
popular destinations all over the world.
In addition to providing cheap flights via their easy-
to-use search tool (that includes all major airports
across the UK), they also organise worldwide ap-
proved discount cards, transport passes and ac-
commodation.
Their latest great offers include return flights to:
Amsterdam, Holland from £104
Istanbul, Turkey from £148
New York City, United States from £279
Dubai, United Arab Emirates from £307
Bangkok, Thailand from £442
Johannesburg, South Africa from £438
Visit StudentFlight.co.uk to find out more!
Travel Deals of the Week
Thai vegetarian festival by Athit Perawongmetha
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Planning a trip and want some advice from experi-
enced travellers? Have a travelling tale to share with
Imperial? Send us a tweet with #FelixTravel or drop
us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
fter many buses and a short
internal flight, we hauled our-
selves and our somehow heavi-
er backpacks to the small town
of Foz do Iguaçu, the closest
resting point in Brazil en route to the famous
Iguaçu Falls of the dramatic ‘terra de catara-
tas’ (land of the waterfalls). The Iguaçu Falls
are formed by several spectacular drops of the
Iguaçu River culminating in an 82 metre plum-
met termed ‘Devil’s Throat’, a glorious junc-
tion uniting Brazil, Paraguay and Argentina.
Hearsay declares that in awe of this thundering
vision Eleanor Roosevelt apparently exclaimed
“poor Niagra!”
Carrying huge expectations, our first im-
pression of Foz do Iguaçu was of a greasy
dirty strip stifled by fast food joints; burgers,
hotdogs, fries, sushi, chinese, supermercados,
supermoffatos and pizza, interspersed within a
riot of Las Vegas-style coloured lighting. Dis-
appointed, we took an early night.
In the morning before visiting the waterfalls,
we were convinced by a travelling Irish couple
to join them in slipping over the border in a
rickety local bus to Paraguay until midday to
visit an electrical goods market. Imagine streets
chock-a-block with stalls simmering with the
sounds of hustlers selling knock-off brands,
perfumes, tyres, shoes, laptops, chargers, mo-
Priya Garg the contemplates the naural beauty of Foz do
Iguaçu, and its fragility at the hands of mass tourism
Yes, the waterfalls are indeed devastatingly
beautiful. Imagine a whole panorama of black
rock before you, with water gushing furiously
from every angle, crashing, falling, pouring
and pounding to churn foamy waves in pools
below. First you see one stupendous stream of
a waterfall surging 64 metres downward, then a
whole circular basin of waterfalls until you fi-
nally arrive at Devil´s Throat in its extravagant
width, the crowning glory of the Iguaçu River.
Birds fly ahead, trees sway behind, and you are
hit by the magnificence of what lies before you.
What spoils it, ironically, is you being there in
the first place.
As we peered over sweaty heads, fighting to
line up our cameras at each viewpoint, we felt
a growing envy of the first explorers to expose
this sight. We imagined them, hacking for days
through dense backwoods, picking at the edges
of this spectacle until falling back in astonish-
ment of the majesty of this wondrous sight.
There they could revel alone in solitude and
peace.
Now, in the searing heat, it was a noisy, busy
commercial centre where after paying a hefty
ticket fee you can duck past children flicking
water, elbow tourists meandering over ce-
ment walkways, stumble over recycling bins
and saunter past overpriced cafés on your trip
around the waterfalls.
How can a waterfall be owned? What makes
it an attraction to be paid for like a fairground
ride? The destruction of nature by commercial-
ism in man comes at a cost, and as tourists we
felt a sudden hypocritical surge of sadness in
being the ones adding to it, stamping our in-
dustrial marks all over the ancient wonders of
the world.
Sorry Asian tourist, Priya is rocking a much better look: you look like a shit Hunter S. Thompson
Strategic photo cropping has managed to conceal the overweight naturists and rabid children
FELIX
Friday 18 february 2011
“How can a waterfall be
owned? What makes it
an attraction to be paid
for like a fairground
ride?”
bile phone covers, rubbery crocs, hairpins and
rows of fake aviators. There was red dust, chat-
tering, honking cars, people dragging large
plastic bags, hawkers and con artists every-
where amidst unfinished buildings and Para-
guayans hanging off flimsy tiers of wooden
scaffolding. Without purchasing, we escaped
back to Brazil and went to the Iguaçu National
Park.
A plush air conditioned tourist bus took us up
through bushy green wilderness where rich red
and golden butterflies fluttered by the windows,
as the bus whipped over-exuberant branches of
forestry. The layout of the National Park allows
one to wander down paved walkways beside,
take glass elevators above, lean on metal posts
over and even boat across the surface of the fan-
tastic waterfalls. Having watched the infamous
‘Gap Yah’ video, this was truly a place where I
expected to feel the “awesome power of nature
and the insignificance of man”, however we
found ourselves curiously disappointed.
Priya Garg

