Scorpio
This week, you self harm. You quietly
leave the library without your friends
noticing. The bus home is achingly slow.
You yearn for the pain. You rush up the
stairs, run into into your bedroom, lock
the door behind you Jessie J on full-
volume... ZING!
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS Horoscopes
Aries
Thisweek,you’refloatingonahazycloud
of warped chimes and ghostly, child-like
wailing. You feel as if your mind has
separated from your body and is holding
court with the stars. You’re having a truly
spiritual experience. Bieber forever. Who
is Arcade Fire? Ofwgkta
Taurus
This week, you’re having dinner with
your boyfriend. He’s droning on about
his course again. You’ve had enough.
You pick up your fork, eat that last piece
of lettuce and stab yourself in the neck
repeatedly. He doesn’t even notice.
Happy Valentine’s Day.
Gemini
This week, you’re getting rowdy at a
gig when you notice a cute girl watch-
ing you. You throw a smile her way and
suddenly you’ve got a good thing going
on.As she walks seductively over to you,
some fat bastard falls out of the mosh pit,
lands on top of her and breaks her neck...
Cancer
This week, you’ve misplaced your B
machines. You’re pretty sure that you
left them in the drawer but they’re not
there anymore. Your A machines are on
the table where they’re meant to be but
some cunting knob has moved your B
machines... You write a song...
Leo
This week, you decide to cut out the
middle man and just scoff coffee beans
straight – Waitrose coffee beans mind
you. It’s all going swimmingly until you
realise your mouth is really dry. There’s
no time to lose! You chuck the scalding
water straight in there... Free Earl.
Virgo
This week you’re waiting at the Union
for your mates. You’re getting out of the
house! You’re going to get crazy drunk!
You’re going to socialise! Yes! After
waiting two hours, you get a text. It reads,
“lol, just needed to get you out of the
house so we could shit on your pillow!”
Libra
This week, you grab a fistful of your
hair, and start hacking away with some
scissors. Before long you realise that it’s
not your hair but some random child that
you’ve abducted... This is a difficult one:
Murder and hide the body, or hope the
child won’t remember you... Decisions...
Sagittarius
This week, you’ve only got a week or
so until the Daily starts. You’re secretly
hoping that the entire population of Im-
perial College London starts fucking
everything up on the 28th so that you’ve
got something to write about every day.
(Pretty please?)
Capricorn
This week, you ponder the great ques-
tion of the day: How did that fat guy
get that totally fit girl? Is he a really
good dancer? Does he have some spe-
cial type of Lynx that I haven’t heard
of? WHAT THE FUCK IS GOING ON
PEOPLE!?!?!
Aquarius
This week, you‘re in your bath tub, head
submerged beneath the water, reliving
all your past memories, those lost times
with lost friends. A figure blocks the
light. It’s the Burger King guy. He rams
twelve Whoppers up your arse while
whistling the theme tune from Skins...
Pisces
This week, you dig up the time machine
that you buried in your garden when you
were 8. You find a photo of yourself.
Man you used to be so full of life and
joy. Now you’re letting balding busi-
nessmen toss your salad for £5 a go...
Ah, Imperial degrees.
China introduces ‘two-wife’ policy
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
Oh yes, it’s all fun and games until you realise that there’s a little boy in that toy house, whose life has been
completely and irreparably destroyed by Mr Tan Line...
FELIX 39
Friday 18 february 2011

