Demonstration outside Sherfield as Health minister
Andrew Lansley marks launch of new school
The Central Library and Charing Cross Library will
both be open as usual (albeit with limited desk ser-
vices) on College closure days this Easter, closing
only on Easter Saturday and Easter Sunday (23rd
and 24th April). Both libraries will also be open as
usual over the Royal Wedding weekend and May bank
holiday weekend.
The change comes as Easter falls so late this year
and hence during a critical revision period, catering
for the many trying to maximize hours spent in the
library.
In another new development for the library, on
Monday the PC availability screens on Level 1 went
live. This scheme, which updates every 30 seconds,
was developed in response to comments from stu-
dents and ICT surveys. Although it remains common
practice to “save” computers with one’s belongings
whilst away so the PC may not be as available as indi-
cated, the information provided about where PCs and
study rooms are available upon entering the library
will be infinitely useful. It is an efficient alternative to
a futile prowl of Wolfson, Level 2 and Level 4.
Alex Nowbar
NEWS
FELIX
4
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Protests as new School of
Public Health opens
This Monday, Imperial celebrated the opening
of the new School of Public Health. The school
will focus on both teaching and, according to
its director, Professor Elio Riboli, research
aimed at providing “the evidence that will help
societies understand the causes of diseases and
how to prevent them”. Visitors to the open-
ing event, taking place in the Great Hall and
featuring Health Secretary Andrew Lansley,
were, however, met by a group of over twenty
demonstrators, part of the ‘Big Society NHS’
campaign against the government’s planned
NHS reforms. Although they were not allowed
into the Sherfield building’s entrance foyer, the
group stood outside, handing out leaflets and
shouting the slogans “public health not private
wealth” and “Lansley, Lansley don’t be a fool –
you’re making me quit medical school”.
Big Society NHS opposes Lansley’s plans to
abolish primary care trusts, transferring their
powers to GPs, and allow more competition
between different health service providers, in-
cluding the private sector. While the protesters
admitted that “GPs should have a larger say”
in the care of patients they were adamant that
this was not the right way to achieve this. Their
literature points out that “over half of GPs
don’t want this responsibility”. Indeed, a recent
Royal College of GPs survey found that only
21.5% agreed with Lansley’s reforms.
James Chan, a foundation year one doctor,
said the plan would allow the “private sector
[to] undercut” the NHS, leading to its “frag-
mentation”. He argued that the “best doctors
[would be] attracted to better paying private
healthcare” which will be “focused in rich
areas” leading to “budget healthcare” for the
poor. He said that in his experience “coopera-
tion”, rather than the financial competition sup-
ported by the coalition, “leads to better health-
care”. A number of the protests’ organisers
issued a joint statement saying that they were
“opposed to the new health and social care bill
which signified a moving away from the NHS’
founding principle”. They said that if the bill
was passed the health service would “no longer
[act] in the best interest of the people[ but in the
interest of] profit” instead.
The group was also keen to stress how they be-
lieved that the Conservatives were not impartial
in this issue. They pointed out how, since 2006,
the party has received £107,000 in donations
from the family of the CEO of the private health
company Care UK, with Lansley personally re-
ceiving a separate £21,000 from the company.
They accused the party of serious misconduct
in afterwards awarding the company with a £53
million prison healthcare contract. The Con-
servative Party have previously denied that the
donations had any influence on policy-making.
College members were poorly represented at
the protest, with most of the students involved
coming from UCL. Reactions of passer-bys
were, however, mixed. Humam, who did want
to give his full name, pointed out that a system
similar to the one proposed by the coalition
already seemed to be working well in Germa-
ny. On the other hand, Ben Bell, a third year
mechanical engineer, said that he would have
liked to have attended the demonstration from
the beginning and wished that it “could have
been better publicised”.
The protest passed peacefully and wound
down quietly after just over an hour. The jury
is still out over whether it did any good. Lau-
rence Pope, a second year life sciences student
not involved in the event, said that while the
people involved were certainly “loud enough”
and that he thought that they might affect a
few students’ opinions, they were unlikely to
change Lansley’s policies.
In brief
Library to remain open over Easter
Maciej Matuszewski
Nominations for Union sabbatical
elections open
Nominations for the 2011 Imperial College Union Sab-
batical elections have now opened. For the position of
President, three candidates have put themselves for-
ward: Naida Dzigal, Scott Heath and Danish Khan. Four
candidates are currently nominated for Felix Editor:
Victoria Bignet, Matthew Colvin, Alexander Karapetian
and Indy Leclerq. Two students have nominated them-
selves for the position of Deputy President (Finances
& Services): Rebecca Clark and Michael Foster. While
the positions of Deputy President (Clubs & Societ-
ies) and Deputy President (Education) currently have
one candidate apiece: Monya Zard and Stefan Bauer
respectively. No-one has put themselves forward for
Deputy President (Welfare). Ravi Pall and Joseph Rum-
er have nominated themselves for the Student Trustee
positions. The above information is accurate at the
time of print. Nominations are open until the 1st of
March at imperialcollegeunion.org/vote.
Maciej Matuszewski
I know that he shouldn’t cheat on the NHS, but when you’ve got other health services falling over you, it’s hard to resist sometimes...
“Lansley, Lansley don’t
be a fool – you’re making
me quit medical school”
Yes! Now I can play WoW over Easter as well! I
mean, I can revise over Easter... (yay!)
Dave Guttridge
Friday 18 february 2011

