44 felix
SPORT sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sports Editors: Jovan Nedic
David Wilson
L
ast weekend, six students
from the Imperial Col-
lege Union Tae Kwon Do
club (ICUTKD) travelled
to Cagliari in Italy where
they competed in the 4th International
Mediterranean Open. Open to all lev-
els whether they be black belts or white
belts, ICUTKD were joined with a few
members from their sister club at Queen
Mary’s to compete against other clubs
from Britain, Belgium and Italy.
The competition is split into two
types: patterns and sparring. Patterns
involve the competitor performing a
series of movements set in a logical
sequence in front of a group of judges
who would then score each individual
performance. Sparring involves a one-
on-one fight against another opponent,
with points scored for each hit (though
knockout is acceptable for senior
grades!).
Sparring categories are determined
by weight and grade, however, during
the tournament many from ICUTKD
were moved up in weight categories to
balance out the numbers. Several found
themselves competing against oppo-
nents much larger than themselves,
which made sparring an even tougher
challenge! Furthermore, whilst British
rules state that sparring is semi-contact
for junior levels, rules in Italy declared
that sparring is full contact, regardless
of level. This came as a shock to some
members who only recently started
TaeKwonDo and found out about the
full-contact rule in the morning of the
competition. Despite all this, every
member embraced the challenge and
fought hard. ICUTKD were able to
come away with a few medals, with
Charles Heng Sok winning bronze
medals for both patterns and sparring,
and Maija-Lisa Han winning the gold
medal for patterns and the bronze med-
al in sparring.
It’s not all hard work and training at
ICUTKD though! With the tournament
over, there was the chance to go sight-
seeing around Cagliari, a peaceful town
on the coast of Sardinia. With their av-
erage level in Italian being zero, the
team were still able to navigate them-
selves successfully through every nook
and cranny of Cagliari. At the same
time, this provided a golden opportu-
nity to take a peek at how the locals led
their life.
To truly relish the Italian culture, the
team treated themselves to delicious
Italian pizza, which was followed by a
trip to the local gelateria. In addition to
the wonderful food, we also managed
to climb up a hill overlooking the town
and saw a magnificent night view of Ca-
gliari.
Finally, on the way back to the airport
in the rented cars we faced some, let’s
say ‘interesting’, Italian driving whilst
doing our best at dodging the speed
cameras (we were running a bit late!).
The challenges we faced were never
ending as we struggled to find a petrol
station that would accept a foreign credit
card.
Without a doubt, the tournament was
an incredibly valuable experience and
a great deal of fun. We cannot wait for
the next tournament not only in Italy but
other parts of Europe and even within the
UK. We would like to encourage anyone
to come along to our club. Both IC and
QM Tae Kwon Do clubs are coached by
Mr Davion Cheng, a IV Dan black belt.
If you feel like giving it a go, train-
ing is held on Mondays 6-9pm in the
Union gym and we welcome people of
any level.
Imperial
Tae Kwon
Do take on
Italy
Maija-lisa Han reports on the
4th International
Mediterranean Open
©
2011
Accenture.
All
rights
reserved.
As one of the world’s leading management
consulting, technology services and outsourcing
companies, we’re also the consulting partner of
choice to six of the seven major Hollywood film
studios. So we’ve selected some of their biggest
hits to create The Accenture Film Season – and
you could star in it.
Get your friends together and create a one-minute
remake of any film in the season. Make it funny.
Make it serious. We don’t mind. If you make it
a winner, you could walk away with £5,000 to
share with your team. Each month the three
teams with the most votes will also receive £100
in cinema vouchers.
Find out more about the One-Minute Remake
competition and your chance to win £5,000, on
our Facebook page accenture.com/filmseason
Raising your game at every opportunity.
Just another day at the office for a high performer.
Choose Accenture for a career where the variety of opportunities and challenges allows you to make a difference every day. A place where
you can develop your potential and grow professionally, working alongside talented colleagues. The only place where you can learn
from our unrivalled experience, while helping our global clients achieve high performance. If this is your idea of a typical working day,
then Accenture is the place to be.
Visit accenture.com/filmseason
Win £5,000 in The Accenture Film Season
Friday 18 february 2011

