45
felix
SPORT
Thomas Whitehead-Clarke
Over the last two weekends, the IC
swimming team have gone out and test-
ed their credentials on a national level,
proving themselves to be a formidable
force.
Two weeks ago the swimming team
took a small squad of swimmers to the
BUCS south regional team event, taking
on teams from all over southern England
from Bath to Southampton and beyond.
Both the girls and guys teams performed
brilliantly, with special mention going to
Hannah Collins and Jaime “ quiet man”
Gonzalez, for fantastic displays in the
100m IM and 200m freestyle respec-
tively. As the gala went on it was clear
that Imperial were in the hunt to reach
the BUCS final up in Loughborough,
brushing aside competition from other
universities to be in a promising position
halfway through the afternoon.
More good swims followed the mid-
gala interval, however the team nar-
Swimmers in command
of the situation
rowly missed out on a position in the
final to the University of London swim-
ming team. This was particularly galling
given that IC had been told that they
had reached the final, only for that to be
taken away due to errors in calculating
points.
The swim team soon brushed off this
disappointment on their way up to Shef-
field to compete in the BUCS Long
course national championships.
It was clear from the first day of the
gala that the team were in good nick,
when the men’s freestyle relay team
qualified for the B final, after which re-
sults only improved. Hayley Rigby nar-
rowly missed out on a place in the 200m
IM final, and had to settle for a reserve
place. A new addition to the squad Chris
Jones made an instant impact when he
qualified easily for the final of the 50m
breastroke narrowly edging Florian
Brock out of the “situation”.
Both men’s and women’s medley re-
lay teams then went on to qualifiy for
their respective B finals, on a day which
would be capped by Chris coming 5th
in the 50m breastroke, and the men’s
freestyle relay team of Chris, Niki Peric,
Jaime Gonzalez and Thomas White-
head-Clarke smashing their time from
the previous day by 4 seconds to come
2nd in the B final, leaving them 12th in
the country. The weekend was capped
on the Sunday with Maria Graney nar-
rowly missing out on the final for the
100m backstroke for reasons unknown,
and a great performance from the girls’
medley team in their final, again im-
proving on their time thanks to a tactical
master-stroke from Alex Charleson.
All in all a fantastic 2 weeks of swim-
ming, and a suitable farewell gift to the
swimming club coach Sergio Catania
who will be moving on after over 5 years
with the club. His enthusiasm on pool-
side will be missed, but the club hope to
build on the success that he has brought,
and go from strength to strength in the
coming years.
Snookering
success at the
Midlands Cup
On the weekend 5th/6th February the
ICU Snooker team descended on Cov-
entry for the annual pre-BUCS warm-
up; the Midlands Cup Tournament.
After an eventful journey in which one
player missed the train, the team arrived
with high spirits. The 1st team consist-
ed of experienced old heads whereas
the 2nd team composed of enthusiastic
Freshers and 2nd years who had worked
their way into the team.
Individual tournament matches were
played on the Saturday, with the 1st and
2nd teams being separated to enter the
individual championship and individual
trophy tournaments respectively. Both
teams had mixed success and there were
notable performances from Nitesh Meh-
ta who overwhelmed his opponent in
the first round with accurate potting and
flawless safety. The individual tourna-
ment ended without an Imperial student
progressing beyond the 3rd round, how-
ever the team event was still to come.
The 1st and 2nd teams were once again
entered into separate team tournaments.
The 1st team of Sam Dennis (Captain),
Hari Arora, Lawrence Wild, Bogdan
Cozmacuic and Grace Yip played some
fantastic match snooker and finished
4th in their group. Most notably Hari
Arora managed a draw against Cardiff’s
R.Taylor and from 25 points behind
against Southampton’s D. Jose.
The 2nd team of Nitesh Mehta (Cap-
tain), Shyam Pankhania, Aaron Trow-
bridge and Paul Choong was one player
light. Consequently two random play-
ers competed in an extra frame in each
match. Nitesh Mehta and Paul Choong
endured tough matches and persevered
to keep the Imperial 2nd’s in the tourna-
ment at the close of play on Saturday. So
far results had not gone the teams’ way,
after losing 6-4 against Cardiff 3rd’s
and Warwick 2nd’s. In the final team
match against Southampton 3rds, Aaron
Trowbridge’s persistence paid off and he
obtained a well-earned draw in the first
match. Unfortunately, Nitesh Mehta nor
Paul Choong could secure a frame leav-
ing Imperial 2nd’s trailing 5-1. It was
time for Shyam Pankhania to step up to
the plate and give Imperial an unlikely
path through to the knockout phase. The
first frame started off with the South-
ampton player taking a 20 point lead,
however with some fantastic safety play
and astute snookering the frame went
down to the black. The Southampton
player potted the long black, and went
on to win the next frame on the black.
Imperial’s pride was at stake and Shyam
Pankhania earned a couple of chances
in the final frame. He successfully con-
verted these chances with breaks of 14
and a career high break of 27, winning
the frame on the long black which had
eluded him throughout the tournament.
The high breaks table was dominated
by a Cardiff player who made fourteen
breaks of over 30. Nevertheless the
Imperial 1st’s had impressive breaks
of their own with Lawrence Wild mak-
ing 41 and 43, and Bogdan Cozmacuic
complemented this with a 32.
Overall the Tournament was success-
ful and now the ICU Snooker teams
switch their minds to defending their
BUCS Snooker Title in March.
Shyam Pankhania
1st XV overrun Portsmouth
David Wilson
Rugby Union
Imperial 1s 33 - 0 Portsmouth
The 1st XV travelled down to Ports-
mouth on Wednesday eager to maintain
their challenge for promotion against a
side that are extremely difficult to beat
at home.
The match began with fly half James
Hayward rocked by three late hits by
the Portsmouth openside in sequential
plays. Portsmouth’s repeated ill disci-
pline around the field allowed Imperial
to capitalise on penalties through their
superior line out and subsequent mauls.
Charlie Esberger, Chris McGeough and
Ed Labinksi provided safe and secure
line out options. The breakthrough came
mid-way through the first half with a try
finished off by Louie Barnett after good
work in the tight from the forwards.
Hayward added the conversion and a
penalty before half time to give Imperial
a respectable lead at the turn around giv-
en that Imperial had defended for most
of the first half, leading by example was
returning captain Caolan Cotter.
Following the restart, Imperial carried
on where they left off, man of the match
George Lane and his centre partner Ben
Adubi looked comfortable in attack
and defence whilst Joe Harris and Jack
Newton on the wings threatened when
given the opportunity. Hayward added
another penalty before Toby Spittle, on
for Jamie ‘S&M’Aldridge, charged over
for a second try after good vision from
replacement scrum half Olly Cox, who
replaced the ineffectual Graeme Riddler.
The third try was simply a collective ef-
fort from the front row. Simon Fenton
stole an overthrown lineout and charged
into the opposition 22 before offload-
ing to Spittle who had the vision to see
hooker, David Wilson, rampaging down
the touchline to score in the corner. Hay-
ward added the conversion to end the
day with a perfect kicking record.
Imperial hope to carry such intensity
into their remaining games this season.
Friday 18 february 2011

