The Summer Ball
End of year summer exams, nobody likes them. It
is the best way to ruin the best season of the year
and everyone dreads them. But now there’s some-
thing epic to look forward to, because this year,
not only is there an end of year summer ball, but
there’s a whole day of live performances to go with
it.
Basically, the Union is planning a festival, with
events scattered across the Imperial campus.
Plans are underway for various activities to take
place during the day, giving the Summer Ball a more
‘festival-esque’ feel.
The Union are going all out this year – not only
are they adding in the all-day festival but they will
have live music (including more student acts) on a
large stage in Queen’s Lawn and a smaller stage
in Princes Gardens. In addition to this there will be
upmarket food and various other stalls.
The Union says that they’re moving away from
the standard formal dinner approach and are trying
something different this year. The possibility of col-
laborating with other London universities is also be-
ing considered, to make the event bigger and better
than ever (and to have a wider range of acts).
Taking you back to your primary school summers,
there are plans for more ‘fun-fair’-like activities to
take place on the day of the ball and the Union aim
for the festival to end with ‘enough time to finish
your drinks and catch the tube home if you want”
according to Deputy President (Finances & Servic-
es) Ravi Pall, with the after-party continuing after in
FiveSixEight and Metric, as well as the Great Hall.
So when is this ultra-spectacular and unmissable
event? The date for your diaries folks is the 18th of
June (conveniently chosen as a date close to the
end of exams so that all students can attend). It’ll
undeniably be a great way to celebrate the end of
another great year at Imperial.
Aemun Reza
NEWS
FELIX
6
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Government signals £9,000
fee restrictions
Geneieve Pugh
Imperial’s plan to join the gentlemen’s club of
universities charging the maximum £9,000 for
tuition fees from the 2012 academic year will
come with restrictions from the government.
Nick Clegg has said in a recent BBC inter-
view that “universities can only charge £9,000
if they are given permission to do so”. If Impe-
rial wants to charge fees of more than £6,000
it must have an access agreement approved by
the Office for Fair Access (OFFA). This sets
out the measures it would use to maintain and
improve access to the university for students
from underprivileged backgrounds. This is the
government’s attempt to remove the barriers to
higher education for students from disadvan-
taged backgrounds that increased fees would
inevitably produce.
Clegg’s view is that “universities can and
should do more to ensure fair access. …so-
cial mobility in this country has stalled. It will
only improve if we throw open the doors of
universities, especially the most selective, to
more bright students from disadvantaged back-
grounds.”
Last Thursday, a letter was sent by Vince
Cable, Business Secretary, and David Willetts,
Universities Minister, to OFFA “setting out
the Government’s expectations in respect of
fair access to higher education”. It introduces
significant changes to the access agreements
that colleges must submit to OFFA if they wish
to charge more than the new baseline fee of
£6,000 for 2012 entry. The letter also suggests
that universities like Imperial should make
lower offers to students from disadvantaged
backgrounds.
If Imperial wants to introduce the maximum
fees or indeed charge above the £6,000 mark in
general, OFFA will require demonstration of a
real measurable progress against agreed bench-
marks for fair access. Their requirements could
include a reduction in drop out rate, more in-
vestment in access measures if progress against
agreed benchmarks is not sufficient and an an-
nual review of their access agreement.
OFFA’s job now is to draw up detailed guid-
ance for universities. Sir Martin Harris, Direc-
tor of Fair Access, said the aim is to publish
this guidance towards the end of February.
Universities must submit their access agree-
ments in April and these will be assessed and
agreed by mid July.
The government is also introducing a na-
tional scholarship programme that will pro-
vide a reduction of fees by at least £3,000 for
students from disadvantaged backgrounds, to
help them cope with their mammoth univer-
sity fees.
But how effective will this policy be in re-
solving the issues of social mobility the gov-
ernment has highlighted? The proposals have
been criticized by Graham Stuart, Tory Chair-
man of the Education Select Committee, who
said: “any university admissions policy that
focuses on factors other than the merit of the
student is misguided. ….We need to improve
the quality of schooling, not dumb down the
entry requirements for universities.”
Imperial announces £9,000 fees
firmed that the Union would be trying to survey
the 27% of Imperial students who receive bur-
saries about “how they feel their bursary helps
them, and also how they think it should be tar-
geted in terms of a fee waiver or cash in hand.”
With tuition fees set to rise, the issue of ac-
cess to financial aid such as bursaries becomes
an ever more important one. Presently Impe-
rial has a means tested fund of £4 million to
distribute, of which £3.5 million is from tuition
fees and £0.5 million is from the endowment.
With cuts to government funding, Kendall cau-
tioned, “the university may not be able to af-
ford the £3.5 million give in bursaries unless
[...] Imperial charges higher fees”. Earlier this
month, Kendall spoke about the discussions
within the working group about how bursa-
ries will be allocated. It is Imperial’s fear that
the government may demand ‘fee remission’,
whereby students will not be able to use the
money for living costs – a highly contentious
issue for students living in London. Kendall
continued, “For a London university, we know
that living costs are the most expensive factor
at university, and the current loan and grant
only just covers this. Preventing [students]
from using the bursary to top this up is a mis-
take”. O’Nions recognized that Imperial still
has “a way to go in our considerations about
what forms of financial aid would attract and
support the most able, but needy, students” but
highlighted that “for those who can manage
Imperial’s courses, the College will work to
ensure they can manage its costs.”
While the costs may be manageable, many
may be unwilling to take on such large debts
before they are economically independent.
With the crushing toll of the recession, both the
financially deprived and the squeezed middle
class are more aware than ever of the result
such large debts will have on their lives. Con-
cerns that world class education will only be
available to the very richest are still very much
present. Whilst Imperial has an academically
elitist image, many are concerned that this
elitism might extend into the cross-section of
society Imperial attracts. O’Nions highlighted
that the college has “plans for a long-term
campaign for philanthropic support [...] to at-
tract the brightest and the best in the world for
generations to come.” Nonetheless, whether
these plans will yield their intended results is
another matter; anxiety is still expressed by nu-
merous students despite the many reassurances
of financial aid. With questions surrounding
the diversity of the student population already
arising, how Imperial will ensure that students
from poorer backgrounds continue to apply re-
mains an unclear but important issue.
Tinie Tempah at last year’s Summer Ball. Give us
Bieber this year! Please?
...Continued from Front Page
Nick Clegg is obviously not pleased about having his sandwich stolen by the kid. But
then again, he did just steal away the kid’s future. Oh yeah, I went there...
Friday 18 february 2011
Tim Smith

