INTERVIEW
FELIX
8
Would you say that you have been an
activist this year?
Yes, I have, but not in the general sense.
I don’t just jump on any bandwagon be-
cause it happens to be something other
people are getting excited about. I’d like
to think the Union is quite good at pick-
ing its fights carefully, if they need to be
fought, but also in collaborating on some
things and realizing that some issues are
better attacked in a different way.
The biggest thing that you’ve been an
activist on is the Life Sciences cuts.
Would you say that protests that were
led by the Union were successful?
It depends how you measure it. We
were unsuccessful in changing the plans
for the restructure, which are now going
ahead. However, we were successful in
making a lot of people in College, the
management side, realize that students
do care about their education, and I
think, even though they won’t admit it,
they know the plans were badly thought
through. On the other side, we were
able to make those people that are being
made redundant, and other members of
staff, aware that students do care about
them, and care about the teaching they
receive.
Does the fact that you are from the
Life Sciences department and you
did those courses have anything to do
with how vigorous the union’s cam-
paign was?
It meant that I was more clued up, as
to exactly what was happening, and it
Life Sciences cuts and
Student Protests
probably made my reaction better, in a
way, because I knew what I was talking
about. I’d like to think I’d be able to re-
spond to any department if it was unjust
like that, and I think I’ve shown that in
the PhD issues.
An area where you have explicitly
stepped away from activism is the
government’s cuts to higher educa-
tion. Why did you decide not to en-
gage with the demonstrations?
The first thing I heard about this was
obviously during the summer when the
NUS were planning their demonstra-
tion on the 10th November. There were
a few reasons why I was a little con-
cerned about that – firstly I wasn’t really
sure what its goals were. Obviously it
was to highlight student unrest, but the
main issue seemed to be the complaint
against rising fees, and then tagged onto
that was to complain about the govern-
ment cuts. Obviously those are two re-
lated things, but they’re going to make
cuts regardless of what we say. They
know that students don’t want them to
make cuts to higher education – it’s a no
brainer.
So the reason not to march on the
street is that you don’t think it would
change the debate?
Yeah, firstly I don’t believe it would
have an effect, but that’s not necessar-
ily a reason not to go and demonstrate
– people go and demonstrate for a lot
of things that they don’t think they’re
going to have an effect on. The reason
I didn’t put my time into it is because
we were elected as a Union to help the
students at Imperial. I don’t think that
it’s within our remit to spend a long time
protesting (some sabbatical officers at
some universities literally spend their
entire time doing this – organizing pro-
tests against cuts). Of course, I wouldn’t
discourage students if they wanted to
protest; we put the NUS demonstration
in the full student email.
Do you see a parallel between the cam-
paign to stop the cuts to the life sci-
ences department and the campaigns
to stop the cuts to higher education
funding, which also affects Imperial?
Well it’s interesting that, a lot of people
have said that, and in a way of course
you can see a parallel: why would you
be lethargic about cuts on one hand and
not on the other? It goes back to what I
said just now, that actually it is within
our remit to try and find a better way to
address the changes in Life Sciences.
Actually we never said there shouldn’t
be a Life Sciences restructure, we just
said that if you are going to restructure,
and if you really have to get rid of people
in that way, and of course it’s horrible,
you have to consider every metric, you
can’t just look at research, that was the
entire point. The other thing is that they
are two completely different situations,
if you look at it on a UK political level,
yes, the country is in a massive deficit,
and has a huge amount of debt. But Im-
perial doesn’t – it could easily keep the
Life Sciences department running at a
deficit while they reduced it over time.
Imperial have enough money to do that.
But Britain doesn’t, you could argue.
Some people argue that the govern-
ment doesn’t need to make cuts on the
scale that they are making.
That’s a very good point, and I’m per-
fectly happy to get into a debate with
any student about this. However, I
don’t think I should be spending my
elected time as a sabbatical officer of
a student union of one university try-
ing to engage with the government on
UK-wide cuts – I don’t think it is what
I was elected for. There are a lot of is-
sues going on within Imperial that we
can help deal with, and that we have
helped deal with.
In terms of how you see your role,
why is it right for the Union not to
engage in these national issues when
many other student Unions do?
I think that Imperial students should
engage…
…But if the students should engage,
why shouldn’t their student union
help and encourage them to engage?
Helping them to engage is different
to actively encouraging them. We did
help them to engage, we didn’t ignore
the debate by any means, we had the
debate in council, we had the debate
in Felix, people emailed in, and we are
right now having a follow up debate
about the bursaries and fees in college,
and I’m trying to publish them as much
as possible. We’ve certainly helped
people get involved. With regards to
supporting them to take a particular po-
litical viewpoint, no I don’t think that is
the Union’s responsibility.
“I don’t think that
it’s in our remit to
spend a long time
protesting.”
“Courses cost money
and the courses
at Imperial are
especially expensive.”
Miles Robertson
He fought the Life
Sciences cuts but
supports higher
fees: Alex Kendall
on why he picks his
fights carefully
The College has now decided to in-
crease fees to £9,000 subject to con-
ditions, and that’s something you
support?
Yes. Firstly there is a big gap in the
national debate at the moment, which
is rightly focusing on the fact that to
charge more than £6,000 universi-
ties have to show a certain amount of
commitment to access. Now obviously
I completely agree with that, but the
debate hasn’t focused at all on how
actually some universities might have
to charge £9,000 because their courses
cost that much. Courses cost money and
the courses at Imperial are especially
expensive. By increasing the fees to
£9,000, those from lower incomes will
have a much greater bursary scheme
available to them, and it’s quite exciting
how much bigger this will be. Unfor-
tunately there can’t be any announce-
ments until the government specifies its
requirements on access.
Is it better to reduce student debt or to
offer cash during the course?
This is the debate about how the bursa-
ries are going to be targeted. There are
two ways. We give students fee waiv-
ers, where they don’t have a choice
about how to spend that bursary money.
You just take it off the debt. Or you give
it to them up front in cash. We want to
survey the 27% of Imperial students
£9,000 Fees
Friday 18 february 2011
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

