FELIX 9
INTERVIEW
who receive bursaries, to find out how
they feel their bursary helps them and
also how they think it should be targeted
in terms of a fee waiver or cash in hand.
Personally, as someone who received
a full bursary for my time at Imperial,
I found that the difficulty in coming to
Imperial was the living costs and for
that you need cash in hand. That’s ex-
tremely important for widening access.
Do you think that fees of £9,000 exac-
erbate issues with access?
I do accept that there is deterrence in
debt, which is the mountain that we all
have to climb. One thing that Imperial
can start doing straight away is adver-
tising what bursaries are on offer before
people apply. I don’t think people have
a clue about the bursaries on offer until
they arrive here by which point it’s too
late to widen access. It does help that
the national conversation is about the
fact that you need to widen access and
improve bursaries if you want to charge
£9,000 because then students will know
when they see £9,000 that there are good
bursaries etc. that’s the mindset we need.
The Union passed a policy last term,
which backed the Browne Review.
It talked about bursaries but it also
backed unlimited fees. Is this going to
be revisited, tweaked and altered?
Yes, in fact we’ll be doing that at the next
Council meeting. I wanted to change it
in response to the survey we’re hopeful-
ly going to do about bursaries, to put in
something about higher education fund-
ing, where the Union believes bursaries
should come from, where they should
go and how they should be distributed.
And we may need to revisit other parts
of it also.
Would you say that there isn’t a good
knowledge about what Imperial stu-
dents think about higher education
funding?
Yes probably. It’s relatively hard to
judge and you can’t keep doing end-
less surveys. But there’s a point to make
that just to cover its costs Imperial has
to raise fees. The funding isn’t going to
come from anywhere else. There is sim-
ply no choice, regardless of my opinion,
regardless of any student’s opinion; they
have no choice but to raise fees to a
certain level. So spending time gather-
ing opinions about “do you think fees
should rise above £3,225?” is, I would
say, pointless. However, I do think that
it’s worthwhile to find out what peo-
ple think about the difference between
£6,000 and £9,000, as in; do you have
£6,000 and less financial aid or £9,000
and an impressive packet of financial
aid?
The Union is currently working to
make hall rents more transparent.
Yes we are, the idea originally came up
because I was surprised that first years
pay for the fact that we have free Ethos
membership from their hall rents. Tech-
nically it comes from the whole commer-
cial services budget but if people paid for
membership, hall rents would be cheap-
er. That’s one side of the debate; I’m def-
initely not suggesting that people should
start paying for Ethos. Commercial Ser-
vices have been very helpful in giving us
a breakdown of what makes up the rent,
aside from the fundamentals like elec-
tricity etc. There were five things: Ethos,
the Amenities Fund, Cleaning (which
you can argue isn’t a fundamental), the
contract length and the cost of warden-
ing – but that’s being addressed by the
wardening review and I’m not going to
even touch that subject.
Is it right that people pay into an
amenities fund that is used to fund
social events, when for example that
money is used to buy alcohol and they
don’t even drink?
The amenities fund is for paying for
social events. There’s a debate to be
had about whether people think the
amenities fund should be scrapped en-
tirely and people can pay directly for the
events that they attend. But something
that I think is a fundamental principle is
that no alcohol should be funded from
the amenities fund. For a start, we in the
union don’t allow clubs and societies
to buy food or alcohol from their grant
money because they’re consumables;
your participation in a club shouldn’t af-
fect on whether you can or can’t have
certain consumables and so it shouldn’t
affect your participation in a hall either.
The fact that some students are subsidis-
ing others to drink alcohol is, I think,
quite immoral. I’m very interested to
hear what students who don’t drink al-
cohol, because of their religious beliefs,
think about this since they’re effectively
subsidising other people to do so.
Do you think they drag their feet on
these problems?
Yes but the issue in EEE was slightly
different. That department was prob-
ably the best; they at least arranged a
meeting where they explained the situ-
ation to students. But with the Aero and
Business School issues, they can say
that it’s all about miscommunication but
I’ve seen the emails and I’ve heard what
students affected have said and it just
doesn’t match up. So now we’re asking
PhD students to monitor their bursaries
and how much they are paid and their
conditions more vigilantly.
ing to get bands and artists in, they do
charge money and it costs us to run the
place. On the other side, if you charge too
much you deter students even if there’s a
drink offer. It’s extremely hard to judge
but we’re sensitive to student concerns
about pricing and we have been changing
prices, using different models. I will say
that it’s never, except for big events like
the Winter Ball, going to be more than £5
online beforehand. I think that’s pretty
reasonable for a club on Friday until 2am.
One thing that was criticised was serv-
ing shark burgers, which is a sensitive
issue. Was that the right thing to do?
I’m not going to say whether it was right
or not, commercial services decided
to do these different types of meat and
they decided that shark would be one
of them. It appeared and it was certified
shark meat, it’s not an endangered spe-
cies but at the same time I was aware
that this area is particularly sensitive so I
asked them to take it off. However, with
the food people generally seem to like
what we’ve got this year; I haven’t heard
a great deal of negative feedback. It was
about getting more variety and the menu
is a lot bigger than it was last year.
Finally, have you enjoyed the job?
I have really enjoyed it. It has been de-
manding trying to get students to engage
more and express their opinions. For ex-
ample, Felix had lots of stuff about the
Browne Review, we were putting infor-
mation out, we had a paper to council, we
were the only student union to support
it actually and yet no one who wasn’t a
council member came to council for the
debate. I suspect that this isn’t an indicte-
ment of Imperial students, that this is not
because of apathy but because actually,
a university like Imperial is full of peo-
ple who do understand the value of their
degree; charging more for it isn’t going
to have such an effect if they get the bur-
sary scheme right. Overall though, this
year hasn’t been all about fee rises; there
is plenty about the job to find stressful,
but also plenty to find inspiring. You get
out what you put in.
Hall Rents
PhD Funding
PhD funding has been a big issue this
year. Three departments – Aero, EEE
and the Business School – have had
problems.
Yes it has. I have brought this up with
College management. Pro-Rector (Ed-
ucation) Julia Buckingham has been
extremely helpful. She’s been very
concerned and has investigated and
resolved the issues. The problem is
that when the College point out there’s
something wrong, the department does
something; when students do they just
shrug their shoulders. It seems to be that
they’re hoping that students don’t notice
or don’t care.
The Union
Metric and FiveSixEight have been
well received, but what still needs to
be improved?
The one thing that we really do need
to get right, which is still a problem, is
the pricing in metric, which has been a
permanent thorn in our side. Some stu-
dents say that it should be free but you
still have to run a business. If you’re go-
“It seems to be that
they’re hoping that
students don’t notice
or don’t care.”
“The pricing in Metric
[...] has been a thorn
in our side.”
Friday 18 february 2011

