Page 4 FELIX 23rd October, 1969
FELIX
This will be the last Felix to be produced under my
Editorship. Pressures from a number of directions over the
past month have left me with a straight choice between
carrying on in my present capacity and ultimately destroying
any chance of getting a good degree at the end of the year,
or resigning the editorship. I have decided on the latter
course.
Many of the pressures which resulted in this decision are
due to the lack of staff working for Felix at the present time.
This issue was probably written and produced by less than
a dozen people, whereas the optimum staff is around double
this number. If this gives the impression of a hard-working
Felix staff, the impression is not misleading.
With the position as regards Felix being what it is (and
readily observed to be so from the credits list in the last
issue) one might reasonably have thought that Council, the
representative body of I.C. Union, on discussing Felix at
their last meeting, would have been less intent on criticising
the previous issue and more prepared to offer some advice
on improving the staff situation on what is, after all, the
Newspaper of Imperial College Union. No such advice was
forthcoming, but instead certain quarters were revelling in
the chance to provide destructive criticism of a newspaper
that has sometimes tended to take a political stand at vari-
ance with their own opinions.
I refer especially to the President of Mines, who in his
Council report for R.C.S. broadsheet, expressing nothing
but his own concern at the extra £300 grant (awarded to
Felix at the last Council meeting) in relation to the " wasted
front page and generally poor quality of the last issue ". If
Mr. Barker feels that the front page of the last Felix was
wasted, then I suggest to him that the column, anonymously
written in the latest Mines Newsletter by Tom Marples (see
Colcutt) was not only a waste of space but a far more
dangerous waste than the photo, of the Felix Road sign.
Coming from the President of Mines, any argument ex-
pressing concern about Felix is made sterile by the fact that
this constituent College is notorious for its lack of support
of the College Newspaper in the form of staff. I speak not
only for this year, but also for years previous to this.
All this returns me to the present Felix staff shortage. The
main result of this shortage is that many items of news,
together with various meetings, are not reported because
members of the staff are elsewhere. There must be many
amongst our readers who, having attended a particular func-
tion, feel that it ought to be reported in Felix. If such people
could come along to a Press Meeting on any Tuesday or
Thursday and arrange to report certain meetings for Felix,
then the present news-coverage, which is suffering most from
the staff shortage, could be greatly improved.
Working for Felix can be very satisfying, but only when
you are not doing the work of two people.
FELIX
N E E D S S T A F F , T H A T M E A N S
YOU
IF YOU WANT T
O LEARN, COME T
O PRESS MEETINGS,
12.45 EVERY TUESDAY AND THURSDAY PRESS ROOM,
UNION TOP FLOOR.
President's
Piece
THE NEWSPAPER OF
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Phone 01-589-2963 (Int phone 2881)
EDITOR: M A L C O L M WILLIAMSON
Assistant Editors: Ian Carr and Tony Kirkham
News Editor: Dave Chant
Photographic Editor: Simon Hoyle
Business Manager: Ian Quarrinton
Circulation Manager: Roger Lindsay
With: Ian Williams, Steve Giles, John Bowman,
Frances Campbell, Colcutt, Piers Corbyn, Tony
Simms, Malcolm Bailey, Andrew ———,
and all those who helped in the distribution,
collating, and selling of this issue.
Printed by: F. Bailey & Son, Dursley, Glos.
National Advertising: J.E.P. and Associates, 107/111
Fleet Street, E.C.4, 01-353-3712.
Published by the Editor on behalf of Imperial College
Union
Publications Board, Imperial College, London, S.W.7
On Friday the first elec-
tion for ICU's 11 depart-
ment reps, on ICU council
will be held. Dept. reps, will
represent views from their
departments on IC council
and make sure that people
in departments know what is
going on on council and in
the discussions with the
" Authorities" and other
bodies, they will organise
meetings of their year reps.,
staff, PG's, etc., or the whole
dept., to discuss any matters
of interest:— e.g. refresh-
ment facilities, staff/student
relations, course broadening,
social responsibility, carni-
val, examinations, etc.. Take
part in the elections and use
dept. reps!
The IC/USK bureau is
now in 8 Princes Gardens—
bring along addresses of
(non-racialist) digs, flats,
bedsits, etc.
Co-adult
community
The Union has now clear-
ly stated its views on a num-
ber of very important topics.
For representation and par-
ticipation in decisions on
policies (rather than details)
we have asked for 5 repre-
sentatives on the Board of
Studies and do not want to
be excluded from discus-
sions concerning us on any
committee. The Union will
organize a meeting to form
an ICRC, the decisions of
this body could be far reach-
ing — because of its repre-
sentativeness.
Concerning the Architec-
tural Association merger we
have stated that we want
our say in the negotiations
and that their level of parti-
cipation should not be re-
duced merely to match ours.
For Senior Common
Rooms we have stated that
we want them open to stu-
dents in the same way as our
common room is open to
others. Council will be draw-
ing up a list of certain non-
academic staff posts in
which we should definitely
have a say.
In all these matters (Re-
presentation, ICRC, A A /
ICST, SCR's, and non-
academic staff) the Union
has adopted policies consis-
tent with the idea of evolv-
ing a co-adult community. I
hope the " Authorities " will
take us seriously and res-
pond favourably — the
alternative to the idea is
something worse than the
" degree - factory " f r o m
which we want to escape.
Ivory towered
Officials
Student Presidents, etc.
of students Unions were
recently criticised (concern-
ing lodgings) for passing
' high-principled judgments'
from their ' ivory towers'
causing hardship to students
other than themselves. These
criticisms are accompanied
by a curious wave of inco-
herent nihilism.
The ' ivory towers ' criti-
cism is of course valid,
though it does not mean that
their presidents' decision
was wrong. Any pyramid
structure might allow offi-
cials to do incorrect things
in the name of people whom
they represent. Someone
once said " correct ideas
come from social practice ",
which in the context meant
things like students must
work with peasants on the
land, etc., etc., and in our
context means that student
officials can only be aware
of the general ideas of stu-
dents if involved in student
life. So make sure they are!
COLCUTT
So it did happen after all. 400 drowsy faces staring blankly
at Lord Penney as he preached the gospel of double discip-
line. If ever a speech showed the dangers of allowing a
college to be set up without an arts faculty, this was it. No
inspiration, no life, not even any scientific logic. Ebdon
showed this up perfectly. If we think of modern societies
with unwritten laws like Nazi Germany and Colonels' Greece,
the Rector's arguments become spurious. And if he seriously
thinks we may get a worse Rector than him, then I suggest
he invites the Rev. Ian Paisley to succeed him.
And how about the new trendy Corbyn and his cell-mate
Guy? Their puerile activities must remind old hands of the
days of Phillips and Lack. Each puts up notices whioh the
other tears down and each boasts of how he can " handle "
the other (whatever that means). If these two would like to
fight in unison for Union policy (as expressed at the now
frequent Union meetings) such policy would stand a much
better chance of being implemented.
Morphy Day will soon be with us again. Already the
thugs of those great institutions, the constituent colleges,
are planning their typical afternoon of hooliganism on the
towpath at Putney. As on previous occasions, the missiles,
supposedly rotten fruit, will in fact be far more solid, per-
haps causing serious injury just like last year when an un-
fortunate IC student nearly lost the sight of one eye. When
the fun is over, the return journey to IC will leave the tubes
a state which would do justice to any football crowd.
in
This all in the sacred name of constituent college rivalry.
Already the drinking habits of the inmates of the Union
are with us once again. Valuable Union property was des-
troyed after a fresher's dinner and Union officials were
totally unable to control those responsible. The Union Execu-
tive must impose more rigorous penalties on those who
abuse its property other than an ineffectual few weeks ban
on using Union facilities. Also there are more stories about
irregularities in the operation of the bars. A duty officer
was severely abused when he tried to break up a private
drinking party behind the Union bar. At this rate, how long
before we lose our licence, and the Rugby club moves down
to Southside permanently?
OPPORTUNITIES FOR GRADUATES
INTHE
PROBATION AND AFTER-CARE SERVICE
If you are concerned about people, would you like to offer a professional service
to the community and face the challenge of helping offenders and their families? The
probation and after-care service offers real opportunities for young men and women
graduates. This is demanding but satisfying work which calls for an unusually high
degree of initiative and personal responsibility if effective help is to be given to a wide
variety of people. Training before and after entry helps the new officer to develop his
skill and confidence in dealing with difficult problems of human relationships.
Career prospects are good and there are opportunities for work connected with
research, training and administration and for secondment to prisons for experience of
work in institutions.
There are vacancies for trained probation officers in most parts of England and
Wales. Training combines academic and practical work, and lasts between seventeen
months and two years according to the course chosen. If, however, your degree is in
social studies or allied subjects you can complete training in less than a year.
Students taking a professional course for probation and after-care work will be
treated as trainee employees of the service and paid a salary. Graduates will enter the
trainee scale at a minimum of £930.
After appropriate training graduates enter the probation officer salary scale at
not less than £1,080 increasing to £1,600. Officers working in the London area receive
an addition of £90 a year. Senior Probation Officers' salaries rise to £2,015; the salaries
of higher grades range up to £3,320 according to area (£3,830 in Inner London).
For fuller information write or telephone:
STANLEY RATCLIFFE
University Liaison Officer
INNER LONDON PROBATION AND AFTER-CARE AREA
Telephone: 584 3611

