28 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
29.05.2015
Television Editors Guila Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Jack Steadman rounds up the BBC’s axing of the beloved panel show
BBC doesn’t mind the Buzzcocks
Comedy music panel show
Never Mind the Buzzcocks was
dropped by the BBC this week,
after almost 20 years and nearly 270
episodes on air.
A 2014 revamp of the show failed to
salvage falling ratings, likely leading
to the show’s cancellation.
The show’s last run often struggled
to hit 1 million viewers, with the shift
to a 10pm slot on Monday nights
believed to have potentially played a
part in the drop.
A BBC spokesman said that “After
28 series we’ve decided not to bring
Never Mind the Buzzcocks back to
the BBC. This will create space for
new entertainment formats in the
future.
“We’d like to thank the team
at Talkback [the independent
production company responsible for
the show], Rhod Gilbert [the current
host], all the brilliant hosts over the
years and of course Noel [Fielding]
and Phil [Jupitus] for the years of
enjoyment they’ve given BBC Two
viewers.”
The show was first broadcast in
1996, with Mark Lamarr taking the
host’s chair alongside Sean Hughes
and Phil Jupitus as team captains.
Jupitus has been the one constant
from that original line-up, staying as
captain for all 28 series of the show.
The opposing team was headed
up by Bill Bailey following Hughes’
departure, and more recently Noel
Fielding after Bailey took his leave.
The host’s chair saw an even greater
number of occupants over the course
of the show’s run.
Several guest stars took the role
after Lamarr left, until Simon
Amstell lead the show for four series.
His departure triggered another
string of guest hosts, which
ultimately lead to the appointment of
Rhod Gilbert to the job.
When Gilbert was appointed to the
role, Digital Spy asked if he thought
the show “still had legs,” to which he
responded “If I thought I was coming
in just to stand on the bow while
the bloody thing sank, I wouldn’t be
doing it.”
Buzzcocks was perhaps most
famous for its ability to inspire an
angry walkout from its guests, with
the likes of Ordinary Boys singer
Preston and Fun Lovin’ Criminals
frontman Huey Morgan all storming
off the set during filming.
The show gained popularity with
such rounds as the ‘Identity Parade’,
where the show’s producers would
locate a former music star and insert
them into a line-up of similar figures,
asking panel members to identify the
A typical line up for Never Mind the Buzzcocks during one of its guest host phases. I know who some of these people are. Photo: BBC
"the show’s
final
episode has
already
aired"
"Jupitus
has been
the one
constant
from that
original
line-up."
Never Forget the Buzzcocks
WiththedemiseofNeverMindtheBuzzcockscomesthe
inevitablewaveofpiecesreminiscingontheshow,itstrials,
itstribulations,andmostofallitswalkouts.
TheseatoccupiedbyPreston(leadsingeroftheOrdinary
Boys)becamedubbedthe‘ejectorseat’afterhestormedoff
setfollowingthen-hostSimonAmstellreadingoutextracts
fromPreston’sex-girlfiend(ChantelleHoughton)’smemoirs.
(BeforeIcontinue,I’mobligedtopointouttwothings.
One,Ihavenoideawhoeither‘Preston’or‘Chantelle’are.
Ifyoudo,pleasewriteyouransweronapostcard,thenset
thatpostcardonfire.Iliterallydon’tcare.Two, readingthe
memoirsofsomeone’sexouttothemonTVfeelslikeabitof
adickmove.)
Saidtitleof‘ejectorseat’can’thelpbutfeellikean
Barrowman! Photo: BBC
‘real’ star.
Similarly famous was the ‘Intros
Round’, now a staple of phone-in
contests on radio stations across the
country, a quick-fire blast of snippets
of song intros from which panel
members had to identify the whole
song.
They also featured the likes of
‘Woop Woop! That’s the Sound of
da Police!’, a round which saw teams
asked to identify how various artists
got into trouble with the law, and
was fairly exemplary of the show’s
attitude towards artists.
The BBC has said that they have
no further episodes for Buzzcocks
planned, including any sort of
compilation or retrospective episode
(which the show has been known to
before), meaning the show’s final
episode has already aired at the time
of this announcement.
enormousover-exaggerationonreflection.AquickGoogle
suggeststhatlessthanfivepeopleactuallywalkedouton
theshowoverthemany,manyyearsit’sbeenonair.
Videosofthewalkoutsareallovereverygoodbyearticle
declaringtheendofBuzzcocks,butthey’rethesamefew
videos. ThatstoryaboutPrestonwalkingout(andwhy)is
theonethatseemstoappearmost.It’sineveryarticle.The
onlystorythatdidn’t(really)mentionitwastheonebythe
BBCthemselves.
Personally,Ithinktheguesthostsweretherealhighlight
oftheshow,especiallyDavidTennant’sstintinthechair.
IfwerememberBuzzcocksfornothingelse,letitbefora
raisedfistandashoutof“Barrowman!”
JACKSTEADMAN

