32 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
29.05.2015
What is going on inside
the Blue Cube this week
What Is: Student Satisfaction?
Confused over what all the fuss this week
is about? Fear not! Our continuing ‘What Is’
series is here for you.
On Tuesday at 1pm, we’ll be running this
session to break down just what ‘Student
Satisfaction’ means, and what we can do
to affect it.
Lead by Vice Provost (League Tables) Knott
Gudenuff, we’ll be looking at past examples
of Student Satisfaction, as well as how
other institutions have handled having
lower ratings than us their own ratings.
Don’t forget to bring your yoga mat as
usual, and green tea will (of course) be
provided.
What Is: The Guardian?
That’s right, we’re running two ‘What Is’
sessions this week!
On Wednesday at 2pm, we’ll be running a
brief session to follow up from our ‘Student
Satisfaction’ session, and keep you all
informed of just who The Guardian actually
think they are, and why their opinion is
regarded so highly outside the walls of this
world-leading institution.
All-Staff Briefing Cancelled
This week’s All-Staff Briefing has sadly been
cancelled by the Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses) due to the widespread distress
over not being ranked above Cambridge in
the Guardian league tables.
What is going on outside the
Blue Cube this week
We sent someone outside to attempt to
discern what was going on outside the
Blue Cube, but after the disappointing
results of the league tables we’ve realised
that if only 80-odd percent of students are
satisfied with their time here, then up to
20-odd percent of students are potentially
violent hoodlums who could express
their dissatisfaction through unwarranted
attacks on staff.
We will not tolerate the threat of negative
ratings on our valued faculty members, and
we take this expression of dissatisfaction
very, very seriously indeed.
However, until further notice all staff
members are expressly forbidden to
leave the Faculty Building without written
permission from the President due to
Health & Safety concerns.
Alice Gast: Thought of the Week
“I’m overjoyed this week by the results of the
Guardian league tables.We continue to rank
among the top universities in the country, with
being an exclusively scientific institution proving
no barrier to our continued success. We have the
highest percentage of students in careers after 6
months of graduation, an achievement no other
University can match. And we came higher than
those wankers at UCL. Get in.”
The weekly newsletter of the Faculty Building
Blue News
Provost Post
of the Week
Every week, a member of
our esteemed Provost board
shares their thoughts with
our collaborative, cohesive
community. This week, we
welcome back Al Pologies,
Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses)!
Sadly, further unforeseen
circumstances have lead to Al’s
continued absence from his
desk.
In fact, we’d like to use Al’s
now-empty column to take
the opportunity to introduce
our brand new Tactical
Initiative Task Squad (Student
Satisfaction). Lead by our
Swedish Vice Provost (League
Tables), Knott Gudenuff,
just one of our many valued
international members of
the Faculty team, the Tactical
Initiative Task Squad have been
tasked (haha!) with taking the
initiative (haha!) on our student
satisfaction ratings, to help
make sure that we can inflate
those numbers and climb the
league tables.
We’re inviting staff members
to design the posters that will
shortly be going up across the
South Kensington campus,
encouraging students to sign
up to come along to meetings
of TITSSS. We’re considering
offering pizza or other similarly
student-attracting foodstuffs,
but if you have better ideas
for encouraging engagement
please do send them in! We’re a
highly collaborative institution,
after all, and it’s through
collaboration that the greatest
work is achieved!
We’re currently hoping to have
enough participation to require
multiple meetings to canvas
views of all the students, with
our current plan to run pairs of
TITSSS meetings throughout
the working week. We hope
the concurrent meetings will
enable us to gather more than
twice as many opinions in the
same amount of time just one
meeting would take! Please,
hold your applause.
If you’d like to be involved
with the Tactical Initiative Task
Squad (Student Satisfaction),
send an email to TITSSS@
imperial.ac.uk, with ‘Sign Me Up
for TITSSS!’ as the subject.
Hello all,
Welcome back to another edition of Blue News! We’ve got plenty of
titillating tidbits laced with an indulgent dollop of information to make
sure you stay informed of everything going on in the world-leading
institution of Imperial College London this week.
I’m sure you all awaited with baited breath the release of that liberal rag
well-renowned newspaper, The Guardian’s league table this week, which
looks at a variety of factors to determine an overall ‘rating’ out of 100 for
each University, which are then collectively ranked based on that rating.
For reasons none of us here in the Faculty Building can quite understand,
this list of factors includes student satisfaction!
So, unfortunately, we must come to the conclusion that when it comes
to league tables based on student satisfaction, students are our biggest
asset. We know that these league tables are inferior to ones we already
sit atop, such as those measuring research, number of highly credited
(even Nobel Prize winning!) professors, or even quality staff newsletters,
but we can’t truly claim to be world-leading in every field (as we all know
we are) until we’ve crushed the opposition on every playing fields.
To use a sporting analogy, Manchester Football Club may win the Top
Football League and be world-leading, but if they lose their games with
Liverpool United Football Club, can they still be said to be the superior
team? No, no they can’t. And the same is true of Universities, which are
obviously much bigger and far more important than sports.
So yes, we may disagree with the bloody liberals Guardian journalists
on their methods behind the tables, but we must also respect that some
very important people look at these tables when considering which
University to sponsor or donate vast sums of money to. And for that
reason, if nothing else, we should strive to achieve higher in all aspects
of these tables.
If that means improving student satisfaction, so be it.
Have a productive, cohesive, collaborative and happy day!

