36 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
29.05.2015
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
Earthquakes and the Underground
We asked if they could bring back a centrefold, but apparently it “wouldn’t comply with health and safety”. Photos: CivSoc (including opposite)
Fiona Walport reports on CivSoc’s Spring Tour to Bucharest
On the 29th
March, 04:00, 70
Civil Engineers across four
years from the Department of
Civil and Environmental Engineering
took off to Bucharest, the capital
of Romania, for the annual CivSoc
International Tour. The students had
been looking forward to the event
all year and the excitement amongst
those going was felt throughout the
journey from the Imperial College
Union to Bucharest – even with the
incredibly early start!
Upon arriving in Bucharest at
about 14:00, CivSoc made their
way to the X Hostel in the centre of
the city on an arranged coach. The
accommodation was a great, cosy, and
fun hostel with very affordable prices
and group discounts. Rooms were of
varying sizes, with almost every room
including people from multiple years.
This acted as a fantastic opportunity
to intermix the years and socialise.
The hostel also had lots of break
out spaces and a spacious common
room providing students with an
excellent opportunity to socialise
in the mornings and evenings after
the eventful days. It also included
an escape room which proved very
popular, with one group breaking the
hostel record. The evening was spent
getting accustomed to the area and
the Romanian culture, and Professor
Bugnariu kindly came to the hostel to
give myself and Dominik [Sznajder,
CivSoc Chair] a quick overview of the
plans for the university and site visits.
The hostel was well located with
everything that the students could
want in walking distance.
Day 2
After another early morning
start and an improvised breakfast
provided by CivSoc, the group
headed off in coaches across the city
to the Technical University of Civil
Engineering Bucharest. We were
greeted by Professor Bugnariu and six
other members of Bucharest’s Civil
Engineering Faculty. The content of
the morning’s first presentation was
focussed around the MetroProject
that we were going to see the next day.
The first lecturer was a consultant
on the site itself, and was able to
give us a detailed summary of the
history of metro lines in Bucharest,
as well the layout of the current
project. Subsequently, Professor
Bugnariu focussed on Bucharest
One, specifically the complex
geotechnical engineering required
on the site. The main difficulty
of this project lies in that the two
buildings forming Bucharest One
are constructed above two Metro
line tunnels. Careful consideration
must therefore be taken in designing
the pile group beneath the building,
as well as predicting the settlement
of the soil that can occur on the
tunnels. Similarly to the London
Underground Ltd requirements, the
tunnels have a very low allowable
movement. The Professor showed us
the detailed steps of finite element
analysis they undertook in order to
analyse/measure the stresses acting
on the tunnels along with the relative
displacements. It was extremely
interesting, giving the first and
second years a great appreciation
of the importance of finite element
modelling on real construction sites,
and providing a practical example
to the third and fourth years who
were more familiar with the use of
this type of analysis. Finally, the
third presentation, also geotechnics
focussed, gave us more insight on how
the site investigations were carried
out. This was also an opportunity
for the lecturers to tell us about the
seismic activity in Bucharest, which
directly related to the University
walking tour that followed the
presentations.
We were shown around the
university campus and then taken
outside to their ‘seismic testing
ground’, where the university had
set up a seismograph to measure the
seismic activity in the city. We were
told that there had in fact been an
earthquake felt in the city three days
before our visit. The University has
an educational exchange partnership
with a Japanese university that
contributes to developing Romanian
seismic design. This includes building
small scale framed/braced/carbon-
reinforced structures to understand
the structural capacity offered by
these different designs.
Finally, to finish off this very
interesting tour, we were led to the

