8 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
29.05.2015
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Cecily Johnson & Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fat or muscle?
We are inviting healthy volunteers to take part in a research study comparing body fat and metabolism in young adults. It will
involve a single visit to Chelsea & Westminster Hospital for 3-4 hours. You will have a full body Magnetic Resonance scan, which is
safe, and does not involve x-rays. You will also be asked for a blood, and urine sample and a buccal swab taken from the inside of
the mouth. This study is open to people aged 19-27 years; we would particularly welcome interest if you were born prematurely.
For	  more	  information	  please	  email	  James	  Parkinson,	  Research	  Associate,	  jrcp@imperial.ac.uk	  or	  text	  07814	  296596	  
University League Tables – how does
Imperial College London rank?
The last five years of Imperial’s rankings. Photo: Cecily Johnson
Cecily Johnson rounds up the various league tables from the last year
This week Imperial College
London dropped three places
in the Guardian’s 2016
University Guide, taking eighth place
out of 119 Universities.
The University of Cambridge came
top of the table for the fifth year in
a row. In second place again was the
University of Oxford, followed by St
Andrews in third.
The Universities of Surrey, Bath,
Durham, Warwick, Exeter and
Lancaster made up the rest of this
year’s top ten.
The league table, which ranks
institutions offering undergraduate
degrees in the UK, is known to
place more weighting on student
satisfaction and less on research than
other similar tables.
Compared to the rest of the top ten,
Imperial had the lowest score in all
three student satisfaction ratings –
overall course satisfaction, the quality
of teaching and feedback received.
However in the category ‘Career
after 6 months’, Imperial was awarded
top marks. Imperial’s average UCAS
entry tariff was also amongst the
highest on the table, behind only
Oxford and Cambridge.
Breaking the Guardian’s guide
down to individual subjects, Imperial
was top in the UK for Mathematics,
Mechanical Engineering (joint with
Leeds), Civil Engineering and Earth
Sciences.
Imperial were second for Chemical
Engineering and Materials Science,
fourth for Electronic and Electrical
Engineering and fifth for Computer
Sciences. Medicine and Physics
managed eighth place while
Chemistry were tenth.
Finally, Imperial took the 23rd
place
for Biosciences, despite achieving
third place on The Complete
University Guide’s version of the
tables.
Imperial achieved fourth place
overall on The Complete University
Guide, gaining two places from the
previous year. Cambridge topped
the list with Oxford and St Andrews
taking the second and third places.
In terms of subjects, Imperial
were in second place for Computer
Science, Earth Sciences, Chemical
Engineering, Civil Engineering,
Electronic and Electrical Engineering,
Materials Sciences and Mechanical
Engineering.
Imperial were third in the UK for
Physics and Mathematics, fourth for
Chemistry and fifth for Medicine.
The Complete University Guide
ranking criteria doesn’t put as much
emphasis on student satisfaction.
The Times Good University Guide
also placed Imperial fourth overall in
the UK, this time behind Cambridge,
Oxford and London School of
Economics.
In terms of worldwide rankings,
this year Imperial was ranked
ninth overall in the Times Higher
Education (THE) World University
Rankings, up from tenth last year.
Imperial College was ranked fourth
in the world for clinical, pre-clinical
and health subjects and sixth for
engineering and technology. For
life sciences Imperial was tenth and
physical sciences twelfth this year.
Imperial also achieved 14th
place in
the Times Higher Education World
Reputation Rankings, down one place
from 13th
in the previous year.
Only three UK universities made
the top 20 on these Times Higher
Education rankings – the Universities
of Cambridge and Oxford, and
Imperial College London.
The World University Rankings are
determined by studying performance
indicators in five areas: teaching
(30%), research (30%), citations
(30%), industry income (2.5%) and
international outlook (7.5%).
The Guardian University Guide
breaks their scores down into a
different set of indicators: teaching
(10%), assessment and feedback
(10%), overall student satisfaction
(5%), the student-staff ratio (16.25%),
expenditure per student (10%), entry
scores (16.25%) and career prospects
(16.25%).
The last 16.25% is made up of ‘value
added scores’, which compare the
average entry grades of students on
enrolment to their final awarded
grade when they graduate, reflecting
how difficult it is to get a good degree.
Data is collected from the
institutions themselves. The UK
rankings tend to also use information
from the National Student Survey to
gauge the level of student satisfaction.
The National Student Survey takes
place annually, assessing the opinions
of all final year undergraduate
students at institutions in England,
Wales and Northern Ireland.
Collecting data via questionnaire,
the survey covers the quality of
teaching, resources, assessment
and feedback; the level of academic
support available; and organisation
and management at the university.
The data are analysed and an
overall student satisfaction mark
awarded. Imperial tends to perform
poorly in comparison with other top
universities in the UK.
Information gathered by Times
Higher Education while compiling
the tables has been used to determine
that only 28 of the world’s top 201
universities are currently run by
women.
Under President Alice Gast,
Imperial College London is among
this mere 14% of institutions that
are female-led. Nearly half of these
universities are located in the United
States.
Criteria weighting for the Times Higher Education World University
Rankings. Photo: Times Higher Education

