F E L I X 11
AKCOftDo
The Best of BBC TV & Radio:
'With Brass and Strings'.
(BBC Records).
The BBC has managed to do it again
in a totally uncoordinated album. It
gets off to a robust start with the
Colonel Bogey March and then changes
mood completely with Embraceable You
and Spinning Wheel Samba to which the
Band of H.M. Welsh Guards have
managed to give a rather poor Spanish
American rhythm.
Side two includes Eye Level, the
very popular theme music to 'Van der
Valk' and a totally unrecognisable
rendering (again by the Band of H.M.
Welsh Guards) of the theme music from
BBC 1's 'Softly, Softly'.
Stephen Richardson
The album finishes off with three
stirring regimental marches L'Attaque,
Come Lasses and Lads, and I'm Ninety-
Five. All in all, a 'superb sampler'
(quote from the cover). At 97p, going,
going, gone!?
Lester Young: Prez In Europe
(Polydore SELECT 2344 044).
This is Lester Young possibly not at
his brilliant best but definitely in fine
form. The album is a collection of live
recordings made while he was in Europe,
actually in Frankfurt playing at a club
for American servicemen. The sound
quality is poor, as might be expected of
such a recording.
The thing that strikes one is the
predominance of tenor sax (Lester on all
Paul Ekpenyong
tracks) and drums, and hence not a lot
of the other instruments. Here it is fair
to point out that the back-up is rather
weak.
The album starts off with Lester
Leaps In w.hich embodies all the essence
of the jazz spirit though it is rather slow
in tempo. It also ends with the same
melody but this time the support is firmer.
By far the best tune on the whole
album is There'll Never Be Another You
with its graceful, sinuous movement
climaxing in a fine solo. Other notable
tracks are Lester's European Blues and
Lullaby of Birdland, the former a very
blue fantasy and the latter seeing the
awakening proper of the drummer. All in
all an excellent album and worthy of
every jazz fan's collection.
BOOKS
aroslav Hasek: The Good Soldier
vejk: translated by Cecil Parrott
(Penguin Books, 1974).
Up until a year or so ago, the only
English-language version of Jaroslav
HaSek's masterpiece The Good Soldier
Svejk was the 1930 translation by Paul
Selver. In his translation, Selver had
reduced HaSek's original (uncompleted)
manuscript by about a third, pruning
some of the rather spun-out episodes,
and removing altogether the dirty and,
at the time, unacceptable anecdotes.
Even in this truncated form, Svejk
stood out as the masterpiece that it is.
For The Good Soldier Svejk is to the
Great War what Catch 22 is to the
Second World War, and M.A.S.H. is to
the Korean War. Good as Selver's
translation undoubtedly is, however,
the new unabridged translation of Svejk
by Cecil Parrott is just that much better.
It's difficult, of course, to see why in
just a brief quotation, but one may get
some idea if one compares Selver1
^"-
'Beg to report, sir, you've lost your cat.
She ate up the boot polish and now
she's gone and kicked the bucket. I
threw her into the cellar — the next one,
that is'.
with Parrott's:-
'Humbly report, sir, you've lost your cat.
She ate up the boot polish and permitted
herself to pass out. I threw her into the
cellar — but next door'.
Somehow the phrase 'permitted her-
self to pass out' (reminding one not a
little of Monty Python's parrot) has
something more to it than just saying
that the cat 'kicked the bucket'.
In both translations, nonetheless,
the essence of Svejk shines through.
Svejk is one of the first real anti-heroes.
Hasek started to write The Good Soldier
Svejk shortly after the Great War and
put a great deal of himself into Svejk —
for Svejk is half-Hasek, just as Sherston
in Memoirs of an Infantry Officer
(dealing with Siegfried Sassoon's
wartime experiences) is half-Sassoon.
And two more different characters —
Sherston and Svnjk — it is difficult to
imagine. Sherston's (at least initial)
belief in the War — that it had some
point - is quite different from Svejk's;
Svejk had no illusions or aspirations
in the War whatever. The Good Soldier
Svejk is quite unlike any other story,
or memoir to come out of the Great War
(think of Remarque's All Quiet on the
Western Front and Graves' Goodbye to
All That). For that reason alone, The
Good Soldier Svejk certainly has a claim
on the time of anybody who is even a
little curious about one of the biggest
wars ever.
But even on the level of a pure story,
with no underlying moral, if such a
thing can exist, The Good Soldier
Svejk must be accounted a masterpiece.
With strong overtones of Til Eulenspiegel
and, like the cat episode, Monty Python,
Svejk's military career must be the
funniest ever recorded. At £1.25 for
750 pages of twentieth century master-
piece in a really good translation, how
can anyone go wrong?
i
Flynn O'Brien: The Third Policeman
(Picador).
THIS BOOK is not concerned with
de Selby, the physicist and philospher,
or his commentators, even allowing for
the lenghts of some of the footnotes (up
to three pages). Nor is it about Phillip
Mathers, who T killed with a blow on
the jaw with a spade, nor even John
Diveny, who first struck Mathers with his
bicycle pump, and who planned the
robbery of mathers' box, which turned out
to be full of omnium.
It may well be about 'I' and his ex-
periences with the nature, circular or
otherwise, of Hell. T , by the way, has
no name, and this means not only is he
immune to the processes of the law, since
they cannot prosecute nobody, but also
that they can do no wrong in executing
him, because they will have killed no-one.
His rescue from certain death by the one-
legged man is thwarted by MacCruiskeen
on a strangely coloured bicycle, or rather
by a strangely coloured bike ridden by
MacCruiskeen.
At this point, I should mention that
de Selby thought right 'on insanitary
conditions of the atmosphere due to
accretions of black air', and his various
commentators believe that his attempt to
cure this phenomenon explain his large
consumption of water.
The book thrives on the apparently
absurd and it's explanation. While these
explanations do not extend to the com-
plexities of a Tom Stoppard play, they
rely on some new absurdity, which has
to be explained later, or on some as yet
undiscovered natural law, known only to
the two policemen. To follow the progress
of 'I' you must accept each new absurdity
in the same way T does, perhaps even
to the point of believing Sergeant Pluck
rather than '.Pa sensory reality. You must
humour Constable MacCruiskeen when
you can't see his boxes that are too small
to be visible, as you must do when the
Sean Barker
Sergeant explains how the atoms in
bicycles exchange places with those in
the owner, and thus how he was forced
in one case to hang the bicycle rather
than its 'owner'.
This book is for anyone with a Dali
poster, or who likes Spike Poe or Edgar
Allen Milligan. It's not for Asimov lovers
if they cannot accept the rational absurd.
I was never sure, at least until the end,
whether T was somehow in another world,
under hallucination, or entering deeper
into madness, but for those who read the
end first to find out such things, O'Brien
has fooled them too, because however
much of the end you read first, the book
will always end just before the bit you
read. It's a book I'd buy if I did not
already have the review copy, and I
cannot be fairer than that. And just in
case you read the blurb on the back
cover to find out what it is really like, it
is just as misleading as this is. The
price in Australia is only recommended,
and not obligatory.

