M U X
INTERVIEW WITH
FELIX: There has always tended to be a traditional
residue of antagonism against ULU by IC. It appears
to stem from the old idea of IC being big enough to
look after itself. Could you comment on this?
John Can: It is a problem in every collegiate Univer-
sity where you have got a central Union with strong
colleges. In the past you have not had a political student
body which has taken the central Union seriously. Last
year we had a Tory ULU president; when this state of
affairs occurs, you usually are left with a fairly dead
Union because there is no real conflict and no real
work being done essentially. Now in Cambridge for
example, students are beginning to recognise the value
of the Cambridge Students' Union which has no ties to
the University unlike the old SRC. Centralised Unions,
then, are for representing issues which affect students,
co-ordinating initiatives and providing a strong back-
up for individual colleges.
FELIX: Are you therefore implying, getting back to
ULU/Colleges antagonism, is that there exists a pot-
ential in ULU which the colleges must recognise if
they are to benefit from it?
John Can: In a sence, everyone gets what they deserve
and ULU has got what it deserves. The trouble has been
in the past that the leadership of ULU never really fully
worked out what ULU's role is in relation to the
colleges. ULU will never be in a position to usurp a
college Union's authority; there are always specific
college issues which only they themselves can discuss.
FELIX: Leaving aside past leaderships and prejudices,
what do you feel the role of ULU should be?
John Carr: I should like to see it as the organisation
which students from the colleges come to meet students
from other colleges and Universities, and most import-
antly, as a means of determining the common attitude
to adopt at University level, and to work out the ways
in which campaigns on the work which NUS is involved
in, as well as specific issues which confront students
can best be organised to maximise their effect and
therefore, maximise the benefits which will accrue to
the students of the University.
FELIX: Moving on from ULU just a fraction to USK, it
appears to have lost a little of its impetus in the last
few years. Do you think in order to make USK a viable
concept that it needs a central office and a sabbatical
co-ordinator?
John Can: When one talks of USK, one is really talking
about all the students in the Kensington area. Obviously,
when you have got a lot of colleges involved, there is
bound to be a lot of adminstrative and routine work to
be done. Clearly then it needs someone who can devote
all their time to it. So I would think that the idea of a
USK Sabbatical is a good one.
FELIX: There is, of course, already one USK Sabbatical
who is the Nightline Co-ordinator. Do you think that
asking for another might conjure up in the minds of
College authorities the idea of Sabbatical proliferation
and its inevitable associations with Trade Unions?
John Can: This is a feature which has been manifested
rationally. The Committee of Vice-Chancellors and
Principals (CVCP) produced a report on Student
Sabbatical Officers. They have not seen fit to let us
have a copy of that report yet and we have not been
able to obtain such a copy.
FELIX: Moving on in an extended line from ULU through
USK to the NUS of who executive you are a member, can
you briefly describe the nuts and bolts of how the NUS
Executive works?
John Cart: The executive is made up of seventeen
people. There are two regional area chairmen (for Wales
and Scotland) which are elected at the appropriate
regional conferences. Both are sabbatical. The remaining
fifteen are elected at the annual NUS Easter conference.
Of those fifteen, four are sabbatical: the President,
the National Secretary, the Deputy President and the
National Treasurer. The rest are essentially part-timers.
By being on the NUS Executive, my position as the
President of ULU is strengthened immensely. There is
a healthy overlap of interests between ULU and NUS.
FELIX: On the subject of overlapping one's respon-
sibilities, Trevor Phillips, our own Union President
is certainly diversifying his interests. In addition to
his post in ICU, he is also Chairman of the ULU
Student Representative Council (SRC) and at a member
of the Joint Committee of the Senate and the SRC as
well as being on the ULU Executive. Can this be
described as a healthy overlap?
John Can: Yes, indeed. Healthy cynicism of this sort
is welcomed. It might become a little disturbing though
if that were always the immediate presumption, i.e. if
someone diversifies their interests then they are just
trying to carve out a career for themselves. In Trevor's
case, he is, in fact, much closer to the mainstream of
events in the University which have direct repercussions
on the students here at Imperial. He is in a much better
position to do his job as President of ICU by virtue of
the fact that he is so involved in ULU.
FELIX: John Carr, thank you for talking to us.
John Can: My pleasure.
HALL
DiNNBrlS
These take place every Tuesday this tana in
College Block.
Price: 95p
Sherry: 5p at the dinnar.
Bookings will be takan from Thursday morning
to Friday lunchtime (Deadline at 1.00 p.m.)
the weak before.
Forms are available in the Union Office.

