I
f 1 was given a lot of money and the after-
noon off, this is what I would prepare for a
large evening in (with 3 or 4 others). The
souffle is another example of my courgette
fetish but its delicately subtle flavour and
ephemerally light texture is well worth the effort.
The beef dish is another kettle of fish entire-
ly. Each ingredient has its own strong and distinct
flavour but after steaming away together the truf-
fle infuses the fillet whilst the whole is sweetened
by the foie gras to create something quite
superb. A heady brew to be enjoyed with a heady
Bordeaux.
The last course is a very light sorbet designed
to revive the senses by its sharp purity.
Good luck and have a gastronomic summer.
COURGETTE SOUFFLE
<r 2 medium courgettes
T 50 g flour
T 50 g butter
°" 1 tsp mustard (powder or paste)
T 250 ml milk
*" 150 g feta cheese, crumbled
®" 3 tbl grated Parmesan
*• 4 eggs, separated
No self respecting souffle should have any con-
sistency so first finely grate the courgettes,
leave them in a bowl with a couple of generous
pinches of salt to bleed for half an hour.
While you're waiting start on the white sauce by
gently melting the butter in a thick saucepan.
When the butter starts spitting, stir in the flour
and mustard. Fry this paste for 1 minute before
removing the pan from the heat. Mix in the milk
one tablespoon at a time, making sure the
paste has become homogenous before adding
more. This is to prevent the white sauce
becoming lumpy (if despite everything you do
get lumps try blending it if possible). Once
you've added about half the milk it's probably
safe to simply pour the rest in and give a good
spin. Return the pan to the stove and slowly
bring to the boil, stirring often to stop the bot-
tom burning. Simmer for a minute.
In a spare moment, reach over and rinse the
courgette in cold water. Then drain them really
well by squeezing all the juice out of the mush
with your hands. This is violent, but necessary.
Put the white sauce into a large bowl and
mix in the courgettes, cheeses and egg yolk.
Season with a small amount of black pepper
and give a good stir.
This is probably as good a time as any to put
the oven on to preheat. You'll need to get it up
to 180°C or Gas Mark 5.
Now for a good egg white beating session.
These need to be beaten up until they form
"soft peaks". I reckon this silly term means that
a spike of the foam sort of curls over and dies
away in about 20-30 seconds. Anyway, the best
way of achieving this is to use a bzzzzz machine
with the appropriate attachment. If you haven't
got access to one, use one of those funky hand-
powered whisks that you get your fingers
caught in. The last resort is to use a couple of
forks held side by side in the hand. This works
(with a lot of effort) by whipping the egg whites
around the bowl and at the same time lifting the
forks up and out to try and incorporate as much
air in the liquid as possible. Make sure the bowl
you are using is absolutely dry before you put
the egg whites in to increase your chances of a
class result.
The final preparation is to fold the egg
whites into the white sauce mixture. This is sup-
posed to be a delicate operation. Do not try to
get a completely uniform mixture: your souffle
will come out a complete flop. Instead pour the
beaten egg whites onto the sauce. Then with a
wooden spoon scrape along the bottom of the
bowl, pull it out and dump your excavations on
top of the egg whites. Repeat 5 or six times.
Now to the moulds. Your can use one large
mould (big enough to contain 11) or, better, four
smaller (1/4 1) ones. They should be round and
ceramic which has the most appropriate heat
conductivity. Make sure they are perfectly clean
and dry and then smother a good layer of but-
ter all over the sides and bottom. Fill them %
full with the souffle mixture and place in the
oven.
The souffles should take 25 minutes and be
a delicate shade of golden brown, puffing out of
the moulds like chefs' hats. Do NOT under any
circumstance open the oven until the souffles
are done as any draft or cold wave will make the
souffle hang its head and shrivel.
Serve the souffle straight from the oven
That horse must be around
here somewhere ...
BOEUF ROSSIGNY
*" 1 kg prime fillet of beef (sirloin)
*" 250 g foie gras d'oie
1 truffle (tuber melanosporum)
®" 1 roll puff pastry
Unlike the last recipe this is a piece of cake.
Unfortunately you might have to extend your
overdraft to pay for the ingredients. They won't
be very easy to find either, unless you go to the
Phake Pharaoh's Emporium. Foie gras is a
goose's liver cooked and preserved in its own
fat. Truffle is a black mushroom which grows
underground in 1" round lumps. As for the puff
pastry, you could mess about making your own
(find the recipe at) but I really recommend you
find a commercial version. They work fine.
Take the sheet of puff pastry and roll it
around the fillet (pat it dry with a teacloth first).
Trim the pastry but leave a 1" overlap to seal.
Take the fillet out and spread the foie gras over
the pastry (not on the edges). Slice the truffle
into very thin (see-through) slices and lay them
on to the foie gras. Season with ground pepper
and finally place the fillet in the middle.
Swiftly prepare an egg wash (1 egg yolk and
two tablespoons of water mixed together),
wrap the pastry around the fillet and seal the
edges with the egg wash. To make a real
impression, draw a pretty picture on the pastry
by scoring it with a very sharp knife or cutter
(don't cut deeper than about 2mm) and brush
with the rest of the egg wash.
Roast in the oven (preheated to 180°C or
Gas Mark 5, handily the same as for the souffle)
for 1 hour.
Serve in slices with some light vegetables
like runner beans and boiled new potatoes or
something.
G RAM O LATA
*" 1 kg red currants
®" 1 kg raspberries
W, 300g sugar
You need to start this one early. Again the best
tool for this is a mixer/blender type thing. The
alternative is a large bowl and a potato masher.
Either way you need to extract the juice from
the fruit. Grind, crush or mash the berries. Drain
as much juice out with a sieve and then put the
remaining slurry into a thin, clean teacloth (or
muslin cloth if you've got it). Pick the cloth up
by the corners and twist it round and round to
squeeze as much liquid out as possible. Add the
sugar to the juices and stir until it has dissolved.
Pour the liquid into a wide shallow container
(the dreaded Tupperware is very good for this)
and place in the freezer. Check progress every
Vz hour or so. When a thin film has formed take
a fork and break up the surface of the ice by rak-
ing it. Return to the freezer and repeat every Vz
hour. Always rake in the same direction. The
aims to get a fairly dry slush with long thin crys-
tals. I can't tell you how long this should take as
it depends on the number of lost frozen pea
bags there are in your freezer.
Serve in chilled glass coupes with
champagne.

