18 INTERVIEW 24 June 1998 24 June 1998 INTERVIEW 19
Ialways had the Rector d o w n as a chap of
sound judgement, but after he agreed to
be interviewed by yours truly for a second
time, I'm not so sure. Perhaps I don't scare
the Suite Five posse anymore? Surely not.
Anyway, I donned the flak jacket and head-
ed for the inner sanctum.
Unlike last year, when the aim was more
the England football squad. There have been
problems, as everyone realises, not least the
fact that the building is late. Naturally, I
assumed that the Rector would attribute this to
insignificant difficulties, sweeping the issue
under the carpet. I was very wrong. "We have
been very disappointed over the performance
of the builders... undertakings that w e have
been given over deadlines and achievements
have not been met in a number of cases." In
Imperial-speak, this is strong stuff. "Although in
the appropriate sub-contractors have not
properly thought out the systems that they
were putting in" and were "not co-ordinated
by the m a n a g e m e n t . . . in the last few
months, virtually all the changes have been of
the latter kind." Penalty clauses have been
m o o t e d before, and it was comforting to
hear that somebody did, after all, have the
sense to put into the original contracts, mak-
ing payments due to the College in the event
of problems. "We shall try to recover unjusti-
fiable costs or increases in cost that were
attributable to the unreasonable actions of
others." Methinks that Sir Ron may be rele-
i n t e r v i e w
with the
to stick the boot in, I meant to pose incisive
questions, the better to elicit Sir Ron's views
on h o w the year has gone. Clearly the big
issue at Imperial has been the medical merg-
er, made tangible by the construction of the
B M S . The changes have gone beyond the
bricks and mortar, requiring a major overhaul
of the existing administration of the medical
schools. This was "bigger than w e thought.
Although w e knew the institutions we were
merging with, w e did not appreciate quite
how large the job would be." Particularly with
regard to the finances, this has "led to per-
fectly understandable dissatisfaction within
the medical school." This is being resolved by
"constructing a new division across the old
accounting structure." Sounds fine, but
depending on w h o y o u speak to, this process
is far from complete, with little difficulties
persisting. Little difficulties such as not
knowing to w h o m bills should be sent. I trust
this will be sorted out before it builds into
quite a nasty surprise. All in all, given the dis-
parate tribes that were, in some cases joined
in a shotgun wedding, it seems to be bedding
d o w n reasonably. "The first year of ICSM has
been tougher than most people thought, but
although there are still problems ahead, quite
a few are behind us... the next mountain to
be climbed is the arrival of the freshmen in
October", a point on which most people at
South Ken would surely agree. Academically,
there are challenges as well, he said, the
biggest being "ensuring that this new and
very ambitious course meets [the students']
expectations and ours."
The B M S building has been the subject of
more column inches than the peccadilloes of
a formal legal sense, the obligations lie with
those w e have been dealing with, some of the
fault lies with us", he conceded. The loss of Prof
John Archer to Herriot-Watt, former Deputy
Rector w h o was responsible for the project was
a particular difficulty. Acquainting his successor,
Prof Bill Wakeham, took a little time, and could
explain some of the problems. O n e annoyance
highlighted by all involved in the project has
been the vacillations of s o m e of the groups des-
tined for the building. Schal say that this has
caused considerable hassle, and Sir Ron said
that "we probably did not exercise tough enough
^ W e have been very
disappointed over the
performance of the
builders...^
discipline on the departments... to specify their
requirements in sufficient detail, early, and make
them stick." To their credit, the building appears
to be extensively future-proofed, which is anoth-
er way of saying that college pitched for twice
what they needed and got away with it. The con-
stant tweaking of the design inevitably delays
work, and modifications "derived from users
changing their m i n d . . . are inexcusable." H e
claimed that recent changes, responsible in part
for the late opening were "generated because
gated from Schal's Christmas card premier
division. However, in the final analysis, the
B M S will c o m e in on budget or thereabouts,
which for IC is a miracle.
The Dearing Report affects all universi-
ties, but has particular relevance to the
Rector, since he helped to produce it. It con-
tains s o m e "Very g o o d points, and some
points about which I'm less enthusiastic."
Elaborating, he said that the short timescale,
coupled with the time to bring the "deliber-
ately inexpert" committee up to speed left
only about twelve months to compile the
report. H e said that probably the most
important achievement was the demonstra-
tion "that their claim that universities were
significantly underfunded has been accept-
ed" by influential bodies, such as the CBI. O n
tuition fees, he said that "if y o u accepted the
position that the financial position was bad,
and y o u put that together with the assertion
of all the political parties that there will be no
more money, there is unfortunately only one
outcome... student fees", a decision for
which "no one was enthusiastic." It wasn't all
negative from the perspective of the stu-
dents, he claimed. Some were pleased by the
"recognition that a number of the assertions
that had been made about the poor quality
of services s o m e universities were providing
was justified." Sir Ron saw "appaling" exam-
ples of academic practice in s o m e universities,
inconceivable to those at Imperial. That is not
to say that IC is without fault. There are "cer-
tain areas where I believe w e are seriously
deficient," but sadly my skills garnered from
the Ladybird Book of Enemy Interrogation
failed to elicit an example.
The non-academic services offered by IC
are a little more clear cut. "I a m not satisfied
with the facilities that w e provide our stu-
dents"; a statement that many would claim
was an affirmation of the blindingly obvious,
but it is reassuring to hear such an unambigu-
ous assessment of the situation.
A c c o m m o d a t i o n is being upgraded, at long
last, with Southwell and Beit Hall first in the
frame. N o news yet of Southside, though
bricks and mortar are already in place. This will
be done once the money has been found. The
biggest project o n the horizon is the refurbish-
ment of the Royal School of Mines. Described
by Sir Ron as "the biggest refurbishment the
MI am not satisfied
with the facilities that
we provide our
students...^
College has ever done", he predicts that pro-
ject could cost up to £ 4 0 million and in terms
of disruption "will be a nightmare." M a n y peo-
ple feel that College is already a perennial
building site with scant consideration give to
view of old cynics like me, w h o saw all the
classic hallmarks of an asset strip, the "prin-
cipal reason [for the merger] is that it offers
an entry into agriculture", which Sir Ron sees
as very important. "I believe that agriculture
in the next century is going to be very differ-
ent to agriculture in this century." Research
into crops that goes beyond genetic modifi-
cation, taking into account considerations
such as atmospheric and soil variations, is
something in which the Rector feels that 1C
should be heavily involved. This dovetails
neatly with the idea that the two big areas for
research in the next century will be environ-
mental and medical science, the new cross-
disciplinary areas that he feels should dis-
solve the boundaries of science more applic-
able to the nineteenth century. All this should
help to boost the College's standing, already
indicated by the Financial Times Survey.
Though pleased by the result, he made that
point that "I can construct league tables just
as defensible as the FT's that could put
b y S i m o n B a k
there are mutterings on the grapevine that
something might happen; for my money, the
only refurbishment possible for Southside Halls
requires a wrecking ball and dynamite.
Plans for decent sports facilities are back
on the agenda, after the failure of the planning
application for the Linstead tennis courts.
While he claimed that the reasons for rejection
- increased traffic - were "bizarre", Sir Ron
said it was probably wise not to press the issue
as "some battles are not worth winning." Hell
hath no fury like the Knightsbridge Association
scorned, apparently. Instead, the plan is to
build on t o p of the existing Sports Centre, a
non-trivial task given that building's legendary
foundations. Lottery bids seem to have gone
out of the window, removing the need for a lot
of features of minimal use to the College, but
essential for such applications. All this should
enable a lower cost solution, and the Rector
said he expected s o m e action within "three or
four years."
O n the subject of Lottery bids, he con-
firmed that the M u s i c &. Arts Centre bid, a
dead duck from the outset in the opinion of
many, has failed. Again, this removes the need
to spend a fortune to enable the public to get
in and cuts the cost enormously, given that the
the needs of the inmates, w h o have to work
around a constant stream of noise, grime and
general tattiness. H e replied that he has
"never known a situation where it has been
remotely satisfactory," but did not offer any
specific suggestions as to h o w this could be
addressed. I hope that our friends in Estates
will pay particular attention to this as they
draw plans for the R S M . W h e n finished, the
building will house the Huxley School and the
Management School, freeing up their highly
desirable Exhibition Road home, which will be
leased out as part of a plan "to make more use
of academic buildings", turning residential
properties "into revenue streams." A very
refreshing attitude indeed, and eminently
sensible.
As part of Imperial's plan to take over the
world, which has already seen the plundering
of London's medical schools, our next target
is little W y e College, near Ashford in Kent. A
report o n the proposed merger will go to the
Governors next week, but it will recommend
the proposal, leading to full incorporation by 1
August 2000, if W y e agree. Contrary to the
O x f o r d at the t o p , or C a m b r i d g e , or
Imperial." Nevertheless, it's better to criticise
league tables when you're near the top, a
point with which the Rector agrees.
I could go on for several more pages,
such was the range of topics that w e cov-
ered, but space is against us. W e discussed
my pet subject, Sherfield, and beyond Sir
Ron's assertion that "no area is perfect", a
view with which I have a degree of sympathy,
I was worried to hear that he feels that w e
probably spend too little on admin. This is
something that may well be addressed by in
the future. Overall, I sensed that the Rector
is, slowly but surely, c o m i n g round to my way
of thinking(l). It has, by c o m m o n consent
been a fairly g o o d year, t o p p e d off nicely by
Birthday Honours for Professors Jarman and
Kibble and the IC Summer Ball, for which I
should n o w be getting ready. Next year will
be a real challenge, when the medical hordes
descend. I wait with baited breath.

