24 June 1998 NEWS
Sabbatical Elections Finally Over (Yawn)
DAVID ROBERTS
With just six days to go before the end of term,
the Union has at last completed next year's sab-
batical line-up, with Chris Ince elected as
Deputy President (Finance Services) by one of
the lowest turnouts in living memory.
The election, which took place last
Wednesday and Thursday, was called when the
previous DP (F&5)-elect, Dave Wharton,
resigned. Mr Wharton was elected last February,
alongside Dave Hellard, Adam Cherrington and
Ed Sexton, but stood down when it became
clear that he would not pass his examinations.
Rather than leave the Union in limbo whilst he
awaited official confirmation of his results, he
decided to open-up the field for new candi-
dates, to ensure that someone filled this vital
role.
When papers for the post came down on 9
June, Mr Ince was the only candidate to throw
his hat into the ring, and with the result seem-
ingly a foregone conclusion, very little enthusi-
asm was shown by the electorate. Hustings at
both Charing Cross and South Kensington were
cancelled, and the traditional IC Radio and Felix
interviews did not take place. Consequently,
most students were unaware that the election
was taking place, resulting in a turnout of just
395 - less than five percent of the registered
electorate.
On a more positive note, those who did
turnout returned Mr Ince by one of the most
comfortable margins ever recorded. Mr Ince
beat New Election (the only other "candidate")
at every polling station apart from Silwood Park,
registering 85% of the votes cast and notching
up a 336 to 57 victory.
The result was greeted with relief in Union
circles. Senior Union figures have been under-
standably concerned that a New Election result
would leave the Union in crisis, forced to survive
without one of its most vital officers until elec-
tions could be held in October. Indeed, ICU
President Andy Heeps had described the
prospect as "more serious than having to do
without a President". However, the election of
Chris Ince has been warmly received, with Mr
Ince (a long-term Union stalwart, now in his
sixth year at Imperial) believed to represent a
worthy successor to the current incumbent, Rob
Clark.
Mr Ince was elected on a platform of finan-
cial prudence and review, highlighting student
training as one of his principle policies. He
promised to organise financial training for every
club or society treasurer, and thus ensure prop-
er controls at all levels of Union funding. He has
also made manifesto commitments to pursue a
thorough review of the levels of subsidy offered
to Union clubs and societies.
Whilst the election result itself represents
good news for the Union, the pitifully low
turnout is symptomatic of a far wider problem.
Senior Union figures continue to cite general
contentment with the way the Union is run and
exam pressures as the root cause, but serious
questions still remain as to why so few 1C stu-
dents really seem to care about the organisation
which is supposed to represent them. If messrs
Hellard, Ince and Cherrington wish to claim a
true democratic mandate to run the Union, then
their biggest challenge will perhaps be to stop
this downward spiral from continuing any
further.
= Chris Ince
= New Election
STOIC M a k e Offal
JON TROUT
Friday night Channel Four viewers might have
had a bit of a fright. For the discerning post-pub
punter Victor Lewis-Smith's TV Offal has proven
to be compulsive viewing for the last few weeks;
genuine footage from assassinations, honest
obituaries of unlikeable television presenters
and slick jingles from the original BBC Radio
One singers making it an instant favourite.
Another feature is the "Crappy Logo of the
Week", featuring last week ICU's Student
Television of Imperial College. The pictures
showed the indeed substandard logo; a revolv-
ing cardboard dodecahedron. They went on to
show some eternally recognisable Imperial
unfortunates, a chap with a poodle haircut and
a celebrity interview. It came as quite a shock to
Mike Gibbs, STOIC chair, who only became
aware of it after the broadcast.
Anonymous Channel 4 researchers had asked to
look through the archives a month ago, promis-
ing to pay for any footage they used, in the
region of over a hundred pounds a second. After
a largely unproductive couple of years, the
money could prove a godsend in providing
funds for a non-linear editing suite, which would
make production easy even for beginners. One
Publication Board member said: "That the fright-
ful design and hopeless taste of late sixties stu-
dents will ensure the immediate future of the
struggling society is sweetly ironic. Hopefully we
can use the cash to get a few more people inter-
ested in getting STOIC to make television pro-
grammes." Mike Gibbs is about 22.

