24 June 1998 MUSIC
IF ITS MOT IOVE, THEN ITS THA BOMB THAT'LL BRING US TOGETHER!
| Welcome to the final Bomb of this term! First up
| is some news on Tupac...Orlando Anderson, the
I suspected killer of Tupac, has himself been
I killed in an altercation at a car wash. Apparently
I he owed some guy money and they got into a
I fight and guns were pulled. Tupac's mother,
• Afeni, plans to release an album of tribute songs
on Amaru Records. It is rumoured to be remakes
of Tupac songs by many different artists, and
Madonna may even be involved! 1 get around,
indeed. The album should be released on the
second anniversary of Tupac's death,
September 13th 1998.
There will probably be a Biggie tribute album
from the Bad Boy camp as well, although I have
I been hearing that Puffy is planning to record a
1 gospel album! You have been warned.
| Lauryn Hill and Wyclef do not seem to be on
| the best of terms. Lauryn's new album appar-
I ently doesn't have any Wyclef production, and
1 her first few lines on her new single, Lost Ones,
I seem to be aimed at him.
I Nate Dogg's album should be out some-
1 where but it will be officially released in the
| States at the end of the month, so expect HMV
Virgin etc to flood us with overpriced imports.
The album is entitled G Funk Classics and con-
tains 2 great songs with Snoop and Tupac, it's G
j Funk like it is supposed to be. Also, Nate has a
I track out with Warren G (don't know if this is on
1 his album, but it is on the Woo soundtrack) and
I it's what you expect: laid-back funk.
1 Master P should release a clutch of albums
I on his No Limit Records. Watch out for P's The
I Last Don. C-Murder (suspiciously sounding like
I 2Pac but it ain't him), Silkk the Shocker, Fiend
j and Snoop's The Game Is To Be Told Not To Be
I Sold will drop on August 4, featuring the No
I Limit Soldiers and others. Don't front, you know
J his last album he was stranded on Death Row,
1 now he got the real deal expect him to make a
good album at least.
NBA Lakers superstar Kobe Bryant is set to
record an album. I hear he can rhyme, so check
it out when it comes. Apparently he won some
rap contest before he made the NBA.
A quick note on the west coast group,
Jurassic 5. I have listened to their album, and it's
pretty good. They have instrumental trakcs and
the regular hip hop tracks, combining old skool
flavour with the new skool. The only bad thing I
find is that it is too short! Clocking in at just
under 40 minutes, you better make sure you like
it.
Brandy has a new album out now, and the
song with Monica, the Boy is Mine, is huge ! It
reached number two in the charts over here and
is number one in the US. The album is supposed
to be pretty good and has a few guest rappers
on it like Mase. Kinda strange having a come-
back at the age of 19 ? Also R. Kelly has pro-
duced and co-written much of the new album
from Sparkle. Peter Gunz fk Lord Tariq of
Uptown fame hit us with their new album, Make
it Reign, featuring guests such as Big Pun, Fat
Joe, Kurupt, Sticky Fingaz fk new jack Cam'ron
and production ranging from Jermaine Dupri to
Teddy Riley. Ex-NWA member M C Ren has a
good album out called Ruthless for Life, show-
ing he still got it after 10 years. Queen Latifah
should be dropping her album anyday soon, and
has some good songs on there.
Singles out now are Imajin featuring Keith
Murray, Janet Jackson, Canibus featuring Mike
Tyson, Jay Z, Pras featuring ODB and Mya, the
Jive All-Stars, and coming soon should be LL
Cool J fk Dr Dre (Zoom), Aretha Franklin (Here
We Go again), Public Announcement (Body
Bumpin'), Bust and Erykah Badu (One), Mary J
Blige (Round fk Round), Another Level (Freak
Me), and possibly Destiny's Child (With Me) and
who knows if Puffy will release Victory over here.
S U M M E R A L B U M S
Look out for the following releases this summer:
Def Squad - El Nino 30/6
King Tee - Thy Kingdom Come 30/6
Sunz of Man - Sunz of Man 30/6
Black Eyed Peas - Behind the Front 30/6
Noreaga - N.O.R.E. 14/7
M.O.P. - First Family 4 lif 14/7
Tribe Called Quest - The Love Movement 14/7
Xzibhit - 40 Days & Nights 14/7
P.A. - Straight No Chase 14/7
Jermaine Dupri - Life in 1472 (21/7)
Cam'ron - Confessions of Fire 21/7
Eat Joe - Don Cartagena 21/7
M C Lyte - 7 & 7 (28/7)
E-40 - Element of Surprise 28/7
Snoop - Da Came is to be Sold... (4/8)
Lauryn Hill - The A/Useducation of... (18/8)
Also expect albums from Canibus, Kurupt
(Kurruption), Mack 10 (the Recipe), inspektah
Deck (Uncontrolled Substance), Rza, Ras Kass
(Rassassination), Cypress Hill (IV), Crucial
Conflict (Good Side/Bad Side), Bizzy Bone,
Heltah Skeltah (Magnum Force), Charli
Baltimore (Ice), Devin (the dude), Cormega (the
Testament), a Flip Mode compilation and All
City (Metropolis Gold).
Roni
Catch Tha Bomb Live at
the Summer Carnival
on 26th June
Da Bomb explodes in the Union
on the last day of term, Friday 26
June. Be there. We got the whole
bomb squad givin' it to ya raw!

