36
INTERVIEW
MUSIC 24 June 1998
•
Who are you? What do you do with music?
1 try to make electronic music; psychedelic
stuff. The most important thing about me is that
I'm from Cologne.
You're in a group called Air Liquide. Can you tell
us about that project?
Jammin' Unit and myself founded Air Liquide
in 1991. Jammin' Unit used to be an audio engi-
neer and 1 was a producer for hip house and
commercial dance crap. After the music was
used in the night we used to use the studio for
psychedelic experiments. We started Air Liquide
at this time and we just had fun in the studio,
not thinking about what we wanted to do, just
freaking out with the instruments; making
sounds.
Why the name Air Liquide?
This is a kind of cool story. I had this fucking
poser car (Oh yeah! Fucking, that's a bad word
in the UK); a convertible; really fast. 1 was going
home in this car at 160 mph and 1 was going on
the autobahn in Germany and there was this
truck called Air Liquide (a French chemical com-
pany) and another car went in my lane so 1 had
to swerve so as not to hit the truck.
I missed the Air Liquide truck by about 15
cm. It was really fast, really close and 1 didn't hit
it. So 1 saw this sign Air Liquide and 1 didn't hit
it, and I thought that maybe we should do a
band like this.
What were your roots? What music inspired you
into Air Liquide?
Ah that's really bad! Jammin' Unit comes
from rock; psychedelic rock music and I come
from NWA, Public Enemy. That's really bad to
say but actually it's true...
Why is it bad?
Because I have to tell everyone I'm not from
the ghetto and I'm kind of happy about that. I
don't like burning trash cans and I don't like to
shoot people. 1 don't like to diss people or
whatever, but the energy from Public Enemy is
amazing. Public Enemy six years ago was like
modern can music; like cut-up techniques,
insane psychedelic electronic music. I didn't like
the attitude, but I liked the sound, the groove
and the funk. So this was mind-blowing for me.
Actually everyone said that white people cannot
be funky. I said "Yeah sure honey! You're right.
Let's do it!"
So do you consider your music is funky?
Hopefully! Maybe not live, but when I pro-
duce records, I'm working hardcore. Someone
asked me how I can describe my music and 1
said, "It's insane music from insane boys for
insane girls. I make girls music!"
Just for girls?
Yeah. Actually yeah! I really love it when they
all shake their asses in front of the stage. This is
totally important for me.
Is that what funk is?
Yeah sure! It's sex.
Apart from that is there a message? What is
your music about?
My partner says no message, actually my
message is sex.
In what way?
Psychedelic, like fucking on LSD. That's big
fun! 1 try to make music like that.
And tonight you're playing live. Can you explain
your live style?
It's really funny because we jam together on
electronic instruments, and if everything works
out fine, we press start and all the machines
work. So we start to combine electronic
sounds; make rhythm, make atmosphere.
Yesterday night 1 saw a live PA from another UK
act, and this was full playback and I had to
leave. I felt so bad for him. He put in a DAT and
tried to play over it. I went back to the hotel and
went to bed. 1 thought, "This cannot be true! I
saw that it was full playback, and I guess that
lots of other people saw that.
So yours is totally live and totally unrehearsed?
Yeah if you give yourself a chance to be
totally bad, you have a chance to be really good,
and if you put in a DAT and press play you can-
not be bad or good, you can just be boring.
That's all. If your only artistic contribution is to
change volume and 1Q, I'll see it and I'll die.
What do you think when critics say that elec-
tronic music cannot be raw and live and danger-
ous?
In this case they have no idea. I mean elec-
tronic instruments are instruments. You have to
learn instruments, and you have to play and per-
form with instruments, and I don't care if these
instruments have five strings or two hundred
knobs or whatever. So you can play on a mixing
board just like on a guitar. You have to love it.
I performed in Zurich, Switzerland. There
was a hardcore girl; a lesbian with short hair and
tattoos everywhere, and she was standing
behind me and when 1 stopped performing she
came and gave a big hug to me. She started to
kiss me and said that it was the most amazing
thing with electronic instruments that she had
ever seen. She was the singer of a Zurich punk
group. She said, "That was so cool! I never knew
that was possible with electronic instruments."
Do you also DJ?
No! I'm too stupid to do that! You need to
have money in your pocket to buy new records
and stuff. I don't have that, it's too difficult for
me to go into a record shop and buy new
records and listen to new records. It's not my
deal.
You release your music on many different labels.
Why is this? Why don't you make music for one
label so people know where to find your music?
I don't believe in labels. I believe in friends.
When friends come to me and want to release a
24 June 1998 MUSIC 37
INTERVIEW
t a l k s t o A i r L i q u i d e
certain record I say, "Oh yeah, sure. Let's go!" If
business people come to me and say, "We have
to release this and this and this." I say, "OK.
How much?"
/ read that you were a student of an academy of
electronic music...
That's true but it's not important.
.../ also read that you went through tough times
before Air Liquide? You had sounds you invent-
ed stolen, and a company that you made hit
commercial records for went bankrupt and you
never saw the money of your work. Music jour-
nalists have justified your hard and raw sound to
this sequence of events. Is that true?
No. As I told you we're lying the whole time.
Every day a new truth. But we are really bad sar-
castic people. Actually I think this is kind of
Cologne style to have really bad humour. We
put this in music.
A good friend of mine plays in a band and he
said, "Whatever any newspaper writes about
you, make sure it's not the truth!"
Why?
Because the more people people can talk
about you, the more important this is for your
publicity, if you tell them the truth, it's kind of
boring; like, "1 was born there, and I think this,
and I did this!" It's boring! But if people start to
talk about you and it's not true and there's a big
rumour and some hype, then this is fun!"
.But don't you think that there are people who
were influenced by your music and want to
know about you because of your music; the
truth?
I definitely appreciate that people like our
music, but they don't know what's going on if
they haven't been in Cologne and went partying
with us for six days. And they don't know how
to die. It's true. It sounds dramatic.
We've been out partying every day for a
couple of years, and at six o'clock in the morn-
ing when we are totally blasted we go and pro-
duce some tracks, and then we go to sleep, and
then we invent ourselves again. So everyday we
have a new truth. It's really difficult to explain it.
People who haven't been in Cologne for a few
days, hanging out with us don't believe it. We
tell them, "It's easy to drink 400 bottles of beer
in two days." They say, "You're fucking idiots.
You don't know what you're talking about."
Apart from this party-vibe thing, you made a
track called Twice Zero is Zero, with a vocal
track that contained some quite deep sayings. Is
your music also about that in some ways?
Mary Applegate who did all the vocals for us
is my ex-girlfriend. All the lyrics were about our
relationship because at that time she was mar-
ried and I was married, and this was a really bad
relationship. She got divorced and 1 got
divorced. I'm not allowed to see my children
anymore because of this relationship. All these
vocals from this time, like "This is not a mind
trip, this is a body journey" were really coming
from the heart. It's not like psychedelic bullshit,
it's an honest rock'n'roll vibe. It's about our
lives.
It's a really bad thing to talk about!
Is techno serious or just party music?
For me when I'm performing live I'm an
entertainer. I have to try and entertain the peo-
ple on the dancefloor. When I'm doing records
it's a totally different thing. I can do whatever I'd
like to do and you have the chance to say yes or
no to my records. If I perform live in front of fifty
or five hundred people they all want to have a
good time. So 1 feel like Frank Sinatra and 1 have
to give these people a good time. I make a
slightly different sound then when I'm producing
records.
I have a really bad feeling to fuck around
with my audience, to say, "I'm an artist and I'll
show you my art. You dig it or die! 1 don't care!"
People say it is easy to make music using com-
puters. What do you think about these criti-
cisms?
I don't know anyone who was able to switch
on a computer and make good music instantly.
There's only two types of music for me; bad
music and good music. I don't care if it's rock
music or played with violins or whatever.
What do you think of DJing as a live spectacle?
DJing is not live. It's like painting a wall. You
can paint a wall perfectly; like white or green or
whatever, and you don't see any drops on it, no
shades. That's a DJ! There are musicians. They
make records for DJs to play. They are inventing
the colours and shades for DJs to play.
In the record industry people say that DJs are
musicians. Do you agree?
I don't want to diss DJs. They do a good job
to bring music to people but they are not pro-
ducers.
Does it not make you angry that some DJs get
all the attention and make all the money if
they're not being creative?
That's OK with me! It's not my way. I've
nothing against someone like Sven Vath who
makes lots of money by putting together other
people's tracks. 1 don't care. It's good to pro-
mote to electronic music to the masses. But
when these DJs think that they are God, 1 have a
problem.
In the end it doesn't matter, because if peo-
ple come together to have a good time, you
shouldn't have to worry to tell them, "Oh actu-
ally I made this track!"
I don't think 1 want all the credit. I feel bad.
I have a problem when kids come to me and
say, "Actually I came from Sweden to see your
show tonight!". I feel that it was a bad idea. Why
did they do that? They should have stayed in
Sweden and watched MTV. It puts a lot of pres-
sure on me. They came from Sweden and payed
a thousand pounds to see me live, so I have to
be really good. I cannot do that!
Al;ck

