40 MUSIC 24 June 1998
CLUBSCENE - NEWS * REVIEWS
W
ell, this is the last
Clubscene of this term
and we've got plenty of
stuff to keep your summer bub-
bling, with all the freshest album
and single releases for the next few
months, as well as all the clubs that
are worth a look.
But before we get into it: I must
apologise to you all for my
appalling use of the English lan-
guage, and since D Clarke, (Physics
1) pointed it out in no uncertain
terms, i have been attending an
intensive training course, in a
attempt to bring myself up to
his/her obviously very high stan-
dards. I hope this has help your
reading pleasure.
First up the Flex Kru: (interview
issue 1115 - pictured) after their
massive club hit Watch The Flex,
they have decided to release future
material on their own label Marvel
City Records instead of using
Bullion Records who released their
first track. Now they have more
control over their material, and
after a little break, they guarantee
that the releases will be coming
thick and fast, with the next release
Summer Time Blues due in about 1
month. I heard this hot off the
press, well hot off the DAT actually,
as it hasn't even been finished yet
alone pressed up yet. This is going
to be even bigger than Watch The
Flex - it's looking set to be one of
the first true summer anthems. So
remember where you heard about
it first. Summer Time Blues is set
for release around end of July, it's
going to be massive. If you can't
wait till then, check out Upfront
99.3 FM where you can hear The
Dexter, amongst others, playing all
their new releases.
Next up; Ninja Tunes have
changed the location of their first
Thursday of every month club
nights to 333 Club Old Street, so
you now get three floors of the
freshest breaks and beats for your
money, in the basement, you get
the four decks mash up from the
likes of DJ Food, the first floor
brings the likes of Coldcuts and
Hex Audio Visual Experience and
finally, on the ground floor you get
the likes of Mixmaster Morris and
many more of the finest itchy,
scratchy DJs in the business. One
not to miss!
Finally there's a little treat being
set up for the 3rd July for people
who love their music real: the
Logical Progression Crew LTJ and
Family join up with the purveyors of
quality house music, Sasha and
Digweed and Danny Rampling
amongst others - a truly unique
event combining the best of both
worlds in two arenas. The only
problem is that's it's all the way out
on the coast and Hastings Pier -
but 1 know I'm gonna be there. For
further info call: 01424 715207
That's about it from me and
don't forget you can catch me
alongside the DJ Roast every
Thursday 12pm-2am on the one &.
only Upfront 99.3FM. Also look out
for club appearences over the sum-
mer. Just leaves me to wish you all
a hot and sweaty summer and all
the best until we meet again. See
yal
Jo Public
CLUBSCENE - DJ BOXES
WHAT'S IN THE BOX WHERE WE CHECK WHAT'S IN THE FRONT OF TOP DJs RECORD BOXES.
Jo Public - Top 10 (Garage) Jo Public - Top 10 (Drum Ik Bass)
1. The Memzee - Funky Love (Vinyl Distribution)
2. Anthill M o b - Set You Free (Makeshift)
3. Jack Ik Jill - Don't Know Baby (Casa Trax)
4. Gruesome Twosome - Tracks (Checkmate Masters)
5. Prime Suspect - Case / (Rise n' Shine)
6. Martha Wash - Catch The Light, Dub mix (Logic)
7. Curtis Ik Moore - Never Give Up. Bumpin' Dub (Swing City)
8. Ray Hurley - Treat Me Right (Quench)
9. M A D Productions Feat. Carroll Thompson - Too Late (E1)
10. Dem 2 remix - Beautiful People (White)
1. Calyx - Double Zero (Audio Culture)
2. Shimon IkAndy C - Live Line (Ram Rec.)
3. Jonny L - Moving Thru Air, Optical Mix (XL)
4. Seba - Planetary Funk Alert (GoodLooking)
5. ? - Low Down (Trouble On Vinyl)
6. Prisoners Of Technology - One Two (Fresh Kutts)
7. Fellowship - Mombassa (Creative Source)
8. Decoder fk Mark Caro - Eko (Tech Itch)
9. Peshay - Miles From Home (Mo Wax)
10. Trace - Sonar (Prototype)
Dj Risky - Top 10 (Garage)
(Catch these and many more on Risky's radio show Sunday Nights
8pm-10pm Upfront 99.3 FM. Big up all the hit the Hit Squad, Lee
Valentine all Upfront massive, Emily, the Flex Kru fk DEA massive)
1. Mr Jones - Mad Changes (Bug Rec Promo)
2. ? - Fresh Kutts Vol.2 (White)
3. M Dubs - Over You (White)
4. Guy Slmone / MJ Cole - Your Mine (Prolific Rec)
5. MJ Cole - Sincere (Meterix)
6. Flex Kru - Don't Front Us (Acetate)
7. Lenny Fontana - Spirit Of The Sun (Public Demand)
8. Groove Chronicles - Do To Me (White)
9. D.EA - Music's HypnotisingPt4 (Booby Trap)
10. Ray Hurley - Your Love Remixes (Quench double pack)
Fabio - Top 10 (Drum & Bass)
(Don't forget you can check Fabio on Radio 1 every other Friday
evening)
1. Endemic Void - Down The Line (Dubplate)
2. Solid State - The Electric Ballroom (Dubplate)
3. Fellowship - Quartz (Creative Source)
4. E-Z Rollers - Hold On (Moving Shadow)
5. Primary Motive - BluePrlnt ( Creative Source)
6. Matrix Mix - Unknown (White Label)
7. Photek Ik Peshay - Rings Around Saturn (Dubplate)
8. Voyager - Beatnik (Dubplate)
9. Grooverider - River Of Congo/ On The Double (Higher Ground -
Unreleased Dubplate)
10. State Of The Art - Mrs Warren's Profession (Dubplate)
L J

