8 NOTICES AND EDITORIAL 24 June 1998
Major Loss of Computing Services/Network Shut
Down during Weekend 1 Oth - 13th July
The Centre for Computing Services (CCS) regrets to inform you that all
computing/network services normally provided via the main CCS
Computer Room/Network Control Centre, based in the Mechanical
Engineering Building on the South Kensington campus, will be unavail-
able during the weekend beginning 17.00 on Friday July 10th.. It is
planned to have services restored by 09.00 on Monday July 13th.
Given the very complex and integrated nature of the College comput-
ing and network facilities it is highly likely that if you do come into
College that weekend you will only be able to use your computer sys-
tem to run its own local applications.
There will be N O ACCESS to any CCS or external computing/network
services from on campus nor to any College computing/network services
from off campus. Examples of services affected are:
Access to the wide area network via Super-Janet
Central servers e.g. FTP server, Tex font server, Exchange/Outlook Mail
Departmental clusters that authorise against the IC domain
E-mail servers e.g. Charing X, Brompton, Administration, Library
Networked services e.g. dial-up services, DNS, the Mail relays
Web servers e.g. College, Library, Student union, School of Medicine
Administration services e.g. MISE, Administration Web
Library services e.g. Libertas, ERL server, CD Rom server, public PCs
This loss of service is occurring because the entire power supply to the
Mechanical Engineering Building, which houses the CCS, will be
switched off for electrical safety checking at the request of the College's
Estates Division. Given the problems caused by switching off the electri-
cal supply for maintenance work, only limited maintenance has been
completed since 1984. It is now essential to do a thorough check of each
building to ensure that the College meets its legal obligations under the
Health and Safety at Work Act. These inspections will be carried out in
all Campus buildings over a period of time, it is the turn of the
Mechanical Engineering Building on the weekend shown. Should you
require further information please contact Arthur Spirling
a.spirling@ic.ac.uk
HAIR NEWS HAIR NEWS HAIR NEWS
H
A
I
R C
U
T
£8.00
UNISEX UNISEX UNISEX UNISEX UNISEX
I N C L U D E S :
ir- CONSULTATION with stylist to d i s c u s s your style, try
a n e w ' ^ £ ^ } ^ ) ^ | r n
' 1 0 W
* ° ^ a ^ Q e a n
d control your hair.
c-V SHAMPOO followed by H e r b a l C o n d i t i o n e r a n d s c a l p
massage.
ir- PRECISION HAIR CUT by fully qualified hair stylist,
e x p e r i e n c e d in m o d e r n h a i r d r e s s i n g .
V USE OF HAIRDRIER with c o m p l e m e n t a r y gel or
m o u s s e to finish your style.
O P E N 9-00AM - 6.00PM
Last Appointment for Hair Cut 6.00pm
Phone for information on other special offers, e.g. Perms. Highlights, Tints.
TREVOR ROY SALON
52 Kensington Church Street, W8
TEL: 0171 937 6413
3 minutes from High St. Kensington & Notting Hill Gate
Editorial
Ladies and gentlemen, I have
failed. A year ago, Imperial College
was a place where students' inter-
ests were not represented on the
key planning and development
committees; it was a place where
students could flounder, fail and
even disappear without any reac-
tion or apparent concern from their
department; and it was a disparate
and uninterested community
where the union existed in name
but not in spirit.
Now, the situation is exactly
the same. This is my fault. Not
because I am responsible, but
because it was my aim to change
these things, and instead I spent
my time gluing things together,
swearing at salesmen, completing
petty cash claims and emptying the
dustbin. In short, I was far to busy
running a newspaper to actually
use it for anything.
Of all the things I have consis-
tently failed to do over the last
year, one of the omissions that has
surprised me most is my total fail-
ure to have any more idea about
how Imperial College actually
works than I did when I still
thought that Friday nights down
the union were pretty neat back in
the first year.
I expected to understand the
machinations of the administra-
tion; I imagined being able to
swagger about Suite Five greeting
pro-rectors by their first name and
slapping the college secretary on
the back and asking him about his
family; I thought that if there was
anybody who would know what
was happening before it happened,
it would be me.
I can come up with plenty of
perfectly good reasons why this
didn't happen, not least that I
already had seventy hours a week
of less important things to deal
with, and almost go sued at the
beginning of the year. The real rea-
son has nothing to do with this.
The real reason why 1 never found
out what was going on, why lan
Caldwell doesn't even recognise
me and why I never met the rector
is that I didn't actually, all things
considered, want to.
For all my high-minded ideas
and idealistic editorials, the truth is
that I'm really not interested. 1
don't really care. I don't like
authority, and I don't want it. As far
as I'm concerned, you lot deserve
all you get.
Goodbye, and good riddance.
I'm off for a good sleep for the rest
of my life.
Jeremy Thomson.
Editor, 1997 - 8, apparently.
South East A s i a n Students from Indonesia,
K o r e a . M a l a y s i a and Thailand
If you have been unable to meet the eosf of your tuition fees thi> year,
some help may be available to you.
Make an appointment i " >ee Martin Thomson the ICU Advisor. Available
in 1CU Offices, Bcil Quad 9am t
<
> 5pm weekdays.
Tei ext 48067 or 48060
Email m.m.thomsonw ie.ae.uk
Actors / Actresses wanted
All ages and nationalities wel-
come. No previous experience
necessary.
Have you always had a secret
desire to act? Have you ever
dreamt of being / having Leonardo
DeCaprio / Kate Winslet and get-
ting all the fit women / blokes? We
are looking for actors / actresses
for our production of a new STOIC
film. Interested? Email
ho.man@ic.ac.uk.

