Stale News IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION No. 291 14th MAY, 1970
Edition
Student Representation
on Board of Studies
Further consideration having been given to the question of student
representation on the Board of Studies, the Board decided at a special
meeting on 22 April to invite the Imperial College Union to send five
student representatives, namely the President, the Imperial College
Union Academic Affairs Officer and the Academic Affairs Officers of
the three constituent College Unions, to future meetings of the Board.
N.U.S. Wins Student
Grant Increase
The first ever interim student grant increase has been
awarded by the Government, to take effect from September
1st this year. The increase will be as follows:—
For students living at home from £290 to £305.
For resident students at London, Oxford and Cambridge
from £395 to £420.
For resident students at other universities from £360 to
£380.
For resident students at colleges of education from £163
to £170.
An announcement on postgraduate awards can be expected
shortly. In addition the Government has agreed to negotiate
with the NUS a major review of grants, the resulting increases
to take effect from September 1971.
T.U.C. SUPPORT
The announcement follows months of work by the N U S
behind the scenes to mobilise support for the claim. The
TUC, after talks with the NUS, announced its public support
for the student's claim, in March. The help of the other edu-
cational unions was enlisted. MPs were canvassed personally
and NUS wrote to 50 MPs individually urging the case for
a grant increase and asking the M P personally to take the
matter up with M r Short, many did. Detailed costings were
presented to the DES, special press briefings were sent out
and the NUS delegation saw M r Short, Secretary of State for
Education and Science, and M r Gerry Fowler, Minister of
State for Higher Education, on the 4th February.
The last time grants were increased was in 1968, when the
recommended increase was cut by half as a result of the
Government's devaluation measures.
TARGETS
The next target for NUS action is the major review of
grants which the Government has promised for next year, to
take effect from September 1971. NUS will be fighting for
grant increase to cover the rise in the cost of living since 1968
and for a major review in the system of grants for students
on non-degree level courses. These students (who include
many in Technical Colleges, Colleges of Technology, Art
School and Further Education Colleges on courses up to and
including Higher National Diploma) currently receive grants
only at the discretion of their Local Education Authority,
where generosity and lack of it, varies considerably. This
means that whether these students receive a grant, and how
much, depends not on the educational attainment but upon
the whims of the Local Education Authority. The N U S con-
ference last April agreed to give the highest priority to the
replacement of this system by a mandatory one—the same as
for degree level students.
The Board also proposes
to invite to attend its meet-
ings, in due course, a further
five students from the Infra-
structure Committee arrange-
ments which are to be work-
ed out by the already estab-
lished joint staff/student
Working Party, under the
chairmanship of Professor
Neal.
The co-opted student re-
presentatives will have the
right to attend all normal
meetings of the Board which
will not in future discuss
matters connected with terms
and conditions of service of
academic staff. The Board
will sometimes need to have
a special meeting to receive
examiners' reports of exami-
nation results and make aca-
demic decisions about indi-
vidual students which flow
therefrom; and following
such a meeting, any further
meeting involving appeals
from individual students.
Such a meeting, or meetings
would normally be held in
the long vacation, and would
deal only with these matters.
Students would not attend
meetings of this type.
ELSEWHERE
IN FELIX
Reports on the Easter
Rugby, Football and
Hockey tours.
New N.U.S. Travel ar-
rangements and fares.
Caroline Ward-Bailey dis-
cusses Associated studies
in I.C.
Everyone can breathe a
sigh of relief. This is the
last appearance of Felix
this academic year. The
first edition of 70/71 will
appear on Freshers' Day.
3rd Prize, General Section. Photosoc Competition by Rick Knee
News Brief:
Felix corespendent to
friend, while crossing Exhibi-
tion Road opposite Mech
Eng at 12.30 on May Day:
"I thought it didn't look like
an official Zebra crossing."
Council workman, on
knees with tin of pain strip-
per: "You're not kidding!"
An inquorate I C U meeting
must have been held recently.
* * *
The lucky person to edit
the freshers' edition of
F E L I X will have to be
David C. Chant, BSc, MSc
(failed).
The lucky person left to
carry on the good work next
year as Editor will be Tony
Sims (Physics 2).
The lucky people chosen
to assist Editor Sims include
Malcolm Bailey (Physics
2), and Mike Yates (Civ Eng
3).
. . .
A financial scandal could
be brewing over the huge
loss made by IC Ents on the
recent May Ball. Felix is re-
liably informed that this
event (possibly better des-
cribed as the May Balls) lost
over £500 this has taken the
Ents separate bank account
several hundred pounds into
the red.
Couples who had paid
£4 10s Od for a double ticket
have been very critical of the
Balls, particularly the poor
meal. Other complaints in-
clude the choice of groups,
the high price of the tickets,
and the scruffy appearance of
some of the Ents workers
themselves. Comparisons (un-
favourable have been made
with the R C S "Black Sab-
bath", which provided a good
evening for 25/-.
The May Day happening
at the Queen's Tower hap-
pened.

