Page 2 FELIX 14th May, 1970
The Final
Analysis
A leisured analysis of this year's first round of Union
voting, including the all important Presidential election, still
leaves much to puzzle the amateur psephologist. Only one
lesson seems to have become more clear, and that by the
Rector and Board of Studies' new found haste to settle
outstanding student demands. By electing flaxen-haired Judith
Walker, the left-wing candidate at last term's college-wide
two-day Presidential ballot, I.C. students did just the thing
Bill Penney, top Admin, and Profs had convinced them-
selves would never happen again. They elected, albeit by
a majority slightly more slender than Miss Walker's attractive
figure, a candidate pledged to follow President Piers Corbyn's
energetic policies. When the left also finished ahead in all
the major contests it looked increasingly as if this year's
policies would be continued. Since then there has been a
significant if subtle change of attitude on the part of the
Admin. Before the election they were prepared to stall over
vital issues in the hope that Piers-type Presidency would be
rejected by the students they were convinced were so
apathetic. Now the Board of Studies has agreed to the
student request for observers and even well buried chestnuts
such as discipline have been dug up by the Rector and are
being pressed by him with all urgency, so different from
the pre-election somnolence.
GuiltyjjSecret
The election voting shows that a significant number of
I.C. students have discovered what is often called: 'history's
guilty secret.' That those who make the fuss and agitate
usually get their Way — and that this to the man without
power is the only weapon. In this country this secret has
been well hidden since Gladstone first elucidated it, with
good reason too, as it can be a weapon for the unjust as well
as the oppressed. Whereas Piers Corbyn swept home last year
on a tide of dissatisfaction with a stagnant Union, the right-
wing, and it appeared 'the powers-that-be' also, were con-
vinced that his unorthodox tactics, and at times harass-
ment of Admin, had alienated sufficient I.C. students to
facilitate a right-wing landslide.. Although there was un-
doubtedly such a movement, increasing numbers of under-
graduates had seen the success that direct action had brought
to other less well behaved students, and that Piers' tactics
had already had some success at I.C.
Stalwarts
That is not to say that campaigns did not make a vital
impact. John Darley, backed by the Rugby Club and the
other bastions of the Union's one-time right-wing bosses, ran
a long and expensive campaign. No-one could doubt that
he was well organised, he was given significant support from
constituent college stalwarts, but made three fatal mistakes.
From the start Darley faced a dilemma, could he afford
to ignore the new mood of the Union and refuse to put
student demands (e.g. B.o.St. representation) in his policies,
or if he included them how could he promise success yet
eschew direct action. A t the hustings this dilemma and his
lack of political experience were cruelly exposed. Secondly
his over zealous supporters by tearing down other posters
and mud-slinging pamphlets angered many moderate
students. It was his mud-slinging pamphlets which beyond
doubt were to cost Darley the election, in which he fought
with increasing frenzy, as still more expensive posters failed
to stop the Walker band^waggon. We shall return later to
this third blunder.
Soul-searching
Bearded Brian Hains, the eager beaver Academic Affairs
Officer, who finished third in the three cornered contest,
started early favourite. Indeed at first the left tried to
dissuade Hains from standing, offering him instead C.E.F.E.
support if he ran for secretary. After much soul searching
Hains refused and by gaining fewer than 300 votes went
on to prove that to be a viable candidate you need the sup-
port of an established political grouping. Poor Brian, right
from the start things went wrong for him, at an early stage
he began to lose self-confidence and even failed to star
at the hustings, where he should have known all the answers.
"A significant number of I.C. students have discovered history'
guilty secret. Those who make the fuss and agitate usually g
their own way1
'
It seems a candidate must have the stuff to take a good
deal of blows beneath the belt.
The election seemed inexplicably to catch the left with,
in one case literally, their trousers down. Only at the last
minute did Judith Walker emerge as a candidate, and at
that stage her feminine charm, considered now to have been
a trump card, was thought to be a grave liability (it cer-
tainly did lose her, ironically, a good number of female
votes). Dave Wield appeared out of hibernation to organise
her campaign brilliantly. J. H . Wilson would have marvelled
how the mounting flow of manifestatoes, posters and slogans,
peaked exactly on polling day. Of course the unstoppable
band-wagon was purely accidental resulting more from a
late-start than a master plan.
Mud-slinging
It was always obvious that with Hains the Centrist can-
didate and the use of single transferable votes, he only had
to finish second to win. It looked that way until the final few
days, by polling day it was Obvious he would finish third
and the winner would be the candidate who most success-
fully captured the second choice notes of Hains' supporters.
To this end Walker's campaign acquired a strange respect-
ability as polling approached, yet inexplicably and quite
fatally Darley brought out the by now notorious mud-slinging
sheet. In their enthusiasm to libel Piers and equate him
with Judith Walker they coudn't resist kicking a man when
he's down, and as far as Darley should have been concerned,
out. By calling Hains, amongst other such complimentary
phrases 'insipid', he lost many Hains' second choices. When
the first coices were counted Darley was only behind by 82
(604 to 522) and he gained the major share of Hains' vote
(147 to 96), without that pamphlet surely he would have won
16 more voters who turned to Judith or the 32 Hains' men
who did not use their second choice, and that of course
would have been just enough to squeeze in. Strange that
the champions of direct action should win because the tradi-
tional British sense of fair play was violated.
The others
The Secretarial election, a straight right (Pete Poods
standing on Darley's ticket) versus Centre-left fight resulted
in a personal triumph for Geoff Needham. Needham sur-
prised even his keenest supporters with a majority of over
200. Woods it was rumoured spent close on £50 on his
campaign and his preponderance of posters over Needham,
who ran on a shoe-string budget, was emphasised by the
destruction of most of Needham's few by Woods' supporters.
Of all the candidates Needham was far the most impressive
at the hustings, his openness and good humour contrasting
sharply with Welfare Officer Woods' laconic answers, which
made the latter look surly, whereas the former came over
as open and friendly. A t one stage Hains and Needham
were on the same ticket, but after Hains' appearance of
grovelling before the Rector when he addressed the Union
meeting a rift opened, and thereafter the campaigns developed
independently. It was this independence by the Social Clubs
Chairman that swung the left votes and C.E.F.E. machine
behind him. His victory remains the most encouraging part
of the election, proving that to win, out-postering your
opponent is not sufficient.
Tony Kirkham's walk away victory in the Deputy
President election was probably due to his efficient campaign.
Careful and tasteful bumpf-sheets secured for him the
necessary image and majority of nearly 300.
Attitudes
The final collapse of the once grand design of Darley
and his group to capture the three Exec, seats, the three
Union Officers' jobs and all eleven departmental reps was
finally shattered when they made only one significant gain,
Dave Hobman became External Affairs officer. Thus the
Union can be expected to take a largely no change stand on
most issues, although the momentum is still to the left.
It is this continuing swing that has surprised the Rector and
the Admin, so certain that Piers lacked grass-roots support.
Their reaction has been to speed up their response to Union
demands. They can no longer, as at the last J.U.R.G.O.,
question the desire of students for real change in I.C., or
the depth of criticism of present structures and policies.
Above all it could mean far reaching shifts in attitudes if
I.C. students really have found out 'history's guilty secret'.
by
Les
Ebdon
The ones
that made
it:-
Tony
Kirkham
Geoff
Needham
THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPFRIAL
COLLEGE UNION
Editor: Dave Chant
! Assistant Ed.: Tony Sims Photos: Malcolm Bailey
^Production: Mike Yates
^Business: Ian Quarrington
l Typing: Susan Parry
Circulation: Roger Lindsay, (
Pete Morgans, Arnold
Darby
Sports: John Darley
, Aided, abetted and helped by: Ian Carr, Tony Kirkham,i
I Ian Williams, Xris Lewis, Barry Pywell, Piers Corbyn,j
|Les Ebdon, Dave Wield, Neil Strachan, John Bowman
printed by: F. Bailey & Son, Dursley, Glos.
{National advertising: J.E.P. and Associates, 107/111 Fleet^
[street, E.C.4. Tel. 01-353-3712.
[Published by the editor on behalf of I.C.U. PublicationsJ
[Board, Imperial College Union, London, S.W.7.

