Page 6 FELIX 14th May 1970
Associated Studies
"Helpless, naked, piping, loud
Like a fiend hid in a cloud . . . " — Blake
"Helpless"?—not entirely, but in urgent need of an acade-
mic co-ordinator who can produce order out of the existing
chaos: "naked"?—in as much as there is no College policy
within which Associated Studies may decently clothe itself
and acquire academic respectability: "piping"?—intermittent
government publications pleading the cause: "loud"?—I.C.
Students' Union, members of Associated Studies staff, Indus-
try, Swann et. al. And "fiendish"?, the entire issue seems to
have acquired demoniacal undertones, more or less hidden
by the fluctuating controversies surrounding it.
College Policy
Blake was talking about a newly-born infant, so the
analogy is not entirely apt, as I.C. has had some form of
Associated Studies in some departments, for at least seven
years. But unlike many universities in the States and several
in the U.K., Imperial College has not seen fit to evolve a
coherent College policy about subjects studied in association
with main disciplines. The pros and cons of the argument
have been debated liberally and not so liberally many
times, but one more suggestion could be added to the stock-
pile. The cause could be partly due to precedent—a system
which the law of the land employs to ensure historical contin-
uity in legal matters. A system which is not noted for its
speed in assessing the changing needs and nature of society
and establishing new precedents. So also I.C. The very name
"Imperial" is indicative of the nature of the establishment:
"the spirit of empire or arbitary power", to all intents and
purposes, not a concept which the mid-twentieth century
aims to foster.
At I.C. matters have reached a point where some more
coherent policy must be thought out. Several departments
have Associated Studies of a "professional" or an "access"
nature and students in others are requesting that more
courses should be made available to more people. Employers
are realising that it is impracticable to spend at least 2
years on a new graduate in industry, in order to condition
him out of academic isolationism and into the practical
applications of his discipline. It is costly both in time and
money to have "fractions" of staff lecturing to individual
departments (part-time rates of pay are proportionally higher
than full-time salaries). Too many individual members of
the academic staff spend too much time administering existing
Associated Studies when there should be an administrative
centre to do this for them. Not so that we can increase the
bureaucratic network in L C , but in order to allow acade-
mic staff more contact time with students and less with
paper and telephones.
ACADEMIC DIRECTOR
Clearly an Academic Director would not only provide a
much needed focal point for Associated Studies, but would
also have the task of co-ordinating existing courses and
devising new ones according to the fluctuating demands of
the College as a whole. It is equally clear that if BoST indi-
cates that an Academic Director should be appointed,
whether he is recruited through advertisement in the Press
or the "old-boy" network in the Club, such a man must be
given some idea of College policy in the matter. Even if the
limbo of Associated Studies is explained to him, he must be
made aware of the Heaven and Hell either side.
A.S.L.U.F.
One attempt to centralise the issue has been made already.
The first edition of the Associated Studies Link-Up File, or
A S L U F , has now been placed in each departmental library
and in the Haldane and Lyon Playfair Libraries. This is a
file which centralises information on most courses that are
currently studied in connection with main disciplines, usually
subjects falling into an Arts or Social Sciences field.
But why "Associated Studies"? No one has attempted to
define "Non-Technical", for the good reason that all subjects,
whether Arts, Social Science or Science oriented, have a
technical basis. In the Diversification issue, subjects were
broadly categorised as being either Technical or Non-Tech-
nical, in order to separate out subjects which were main
line disciplines in the College, but could be studied as sub-
idiary subjects as well (e.g. Computing for Mathematicians as
opposed to Computing for the C C A ) these subjects being
"Technical"; and then the "others"—languages, literature,
history, philosophy, economics, politics, sociology and so on,
these being considered "Non-Technical". As General Studies
at I.C. is the umbrella under which lunch-time lectures and
concerts falls, it would add further confusion to label groups
of subjects studied in connection with main disciplines, Gen-
eral Studies as well Apart from this, it is likely that the
Prof. C. D. Buchanan Mr. C. K. McDowaU
Transport Touchstone, Gen. Studies
wrong onus would be placed on subjects labelled either "Gen-
eral", "Liberal", "Complementary". "Ancillary" or "Subsi-
diary". A l l these titles tend to suggest a little gentle dabbling
in culture, which is tacked on to the end of the serious busi-
ness of studying. But "what's in a name"? to which one can
only reply, that if we have to label for the sake of con-
venience, "Associated" is nearer the spirit of the idea than
the other titles.
BEHIND A.S.L.U.F.
A S L U F is produced from the Associated Studies Office in
College Block. The idea behind it is to produce a file, on
the lines of Kessing's Contemporary Archives, in which de-
tails of courses, controversies and other matters connected
with Associated Studies are gathered together under one
heading, rather than having to resort to leafing through the
College Calendar. Periodically, new material will be added
and the indexes brought up to date. In an attempt to alle-
viate the built-in resistance most people have against cyclo-
styled material, each group of subjects has information prin-
ted on different coloured Sheets. Incidentally, it also makes
it considerably easier to find out particular items of infor-
mation throughout a period of time, as the pages are num-
bered consecutively from the inception of the file and addi-
tional material is added in the same colour spectrum each
time.
The first section comprises matters of general interest.
There is a flow chart of existing Associated Studies in the
College and a diagram of the various committees which have
something in common with Associated Studies. When the
U G C Arts Sub-Committee visited the College in November
1969, a comprehensive programme was given to them, which
gave in outline the organisation of Associated Studies, the
purposes of Associated Studies and credit carrying options.
Minutes of the first major informative meeting on Non-
Technical Studies are also included in this section.
Prof. A. R. Hall, History Mrs. A. Klein
of Science and Technology Languages
CONTROVERSIES
The final section, excluding comprehensive Name and
Subject Indexes, contains the controversial meat of the
issue. In December 1969, the A T T I (Association of Teachers
in Technical Institutions) published a statement on General
Studies, re-affirming the need and desirability of General
Caroline Ward-Bailey
reviews the situation
in I.C.
Studies, detailing the problems involved and suggesting the
type of framework in which such studies may well develop.
In the same month, the late Lord Jackson distributed a
memorandum to all members of staff in the College, reques-
ting comments and suggestions on Non-Technical Studies.
About 500-600 memoranda were sent out, 26 replies were
received. The replies have been selected into Pros and Cons
columns, and further subdivided into various headings •—
Academic Respectability, Economic, Practical, Professional
Orientation and Student Demands. By now, the result seems
to be a collection of rather hackneyed arguments, but it does
indicate the climate of opinion which surrounds Associated
Studies fairly succinctly. Against the arguments presented
by I.C. on Associated Studies, there are a few extracts
from H M S O publications which affirm the government's
opinions on the matter.
A n article published in "Liberal Education" called "The
Demand for Non-Technical Studies at Imperial College" by
R. Mohan, J. Shields, D. Wield and Dr. J. S. R. Goodlad
is also reproduced. The title speaks for itself. Finally an
article by Professor L . R. B. Elton of the University of
Surrey called "The assessment of Students—a new approach"
Prof. E. C. Cherry Mr. K. R. Minogue
Communication Politics
concludes the section. The title is somewhat ambiguous and
is not a sociological approach to old phenomena, but an
article suggesting ways of accrediting academic work on a
basis of time/difficulty indexes. Between these two sections
there are details of sections of departments which have some-
thing in common with Associated Studies, though they may
not run courses specifically for undergraduates. A n example
of this is Professor Buchanan's "Transport" section—"one
of the major pre-occupations of mankind ever since the
dawn of civilization". Brief details of some major projects
are given, followed by a short profile plus photograph of
Professor Buchanan. Another section is that of Professor
Cherry's "Communication" unit in Electrical Engineering,
primarily—running courses for post-graduates but including
a lecture/seminar open to the entire College, called "What is
Communication?" Touchstone and General Studies, also
indexed as an example of "Sampling Studies", which is organ-
ised by Mr. C. K. McDowall, has a section of its own,
including a profile and photograph of the Touchstone Sec-
retary.
Union matters are appropriately printed on amber col-
oured paper, including rather well-aired views on Diversifi-
cation as a whole, the course unit system, the case for
Diversification, General Studies, and extracts from its Quin-
quennial report, in particular. As yet, there are no revealing
details of the lives of any of the major protagonists, but they
may well follow.
A n extensive list of Electrical Engineering's Group Pro-
jects 1964-1970 is included and ranges from "How should a
University of the A i r be organised?" (1965) to "Is the Con-
corde Worthwhile?" (1966) and "Energy supply for space
heating" (1966).
ASSOCIATED STUDIES COURSES
The bulk of the file is concerned with detailing courses
currently in existence. The first group of courses are those
run by the Department of History of Science and Technology.
Principally courses designed for post-graduates, there is one
course designed for undergraduates in Chemical Engineering
and Chemical Technology called "The Chemical Industry
and 19th century British Society". Professor and Mrs. Hall
have volunteered both profiles and photographs of them-
selves.
continued on page 7

