14th May, 1970 FELIX Page 9
Simon and Garfunkel
personal appearance
On stage they are like a pair of hardy sheepdogs, almost
totally unmoved by the massive throng of the audience.
Heads hung low they make their way on to the dais, both
carrying a guitar in each hand. Art Garfunkel breaks the ice,
"Boy, are we nervous!", he says.
Back in England
Since their last appearances in Britain, Simon and Gar-
funkel have become demi-Gods both in their own country
and over here. For a time, ithey were resident at (the "Trouba-
dour" folk club in Old Brompton Road, and made a great
impression at the Edinburgh Folk Festival earlier in the
sixties. Back in the States, "Sounds of Silence", a track
originally recorded for an album, was given a rock backing
and subsequently released on both side of the Atlantic.
It was a landmark for the two. The enormous success of the
single showed their appeal went far beyond that of just
the loyal folk fans.
Later came the lilting and nostalgic "Homeward Bound"
and the pounding single, "I am a Rock". Their first three
LPs, "The Paul Simon Songbook", "Sound of Silence" and
"Parsley, Sage, Rosemary and Thyme" are evidence of their
consistent genius in the art of writing both moving melody
and poetic lyrics. Then came Simon's powerful score to the
film "The Graduate", and the legend-like album "Bookends"
in the Summer of 1968. After some months of intricate
preparation, Simon and Garfunkel's latest album, "Bridge
over troubled waters", was released in February of this
year.
At the Albert
It's clear then why, on the last Saturday in April, thou-
sands made pilgrimages just for a fleeting experience of the
best contemporary folk music the US has produced. By
seven, the street's round the Albert Hall seemed to head
in one direction only. Police were as numerous as ticket
and programme touts, but both groups were dwarfed by a
growing army of young fans.
Inside on the shrunken wooden rostrum were just two
wooden stools, a table and a Chappel piano. When the lights
finally sank, when a spot pinpointed the companion-way,
and when the audience was ready — they came on — to
tumultuous applause from the audience.
Dynamic duo
Live, the combination of Paul Simon's guitar and the
experienced blending of the two lilting American voices
gave a perfection not normally found outside a recording
studio. Much of the concert was based upon the pre-"Bridge"
classics such as "Homeward Bound" and "Mrs. Robinson";
but with piano backing from Larry Necto, Garfunkel sang
their latest release which was greeted by a tremendous re-
sponse from the hall. In two forty minute stints they played
about fifteen numbers and were coerced back by the
audience for two encores. In the unending ovation that fol-
lowed the stage was mobbed by frantic well-wishers. Only
the promoter's unwelcome assurance that it was all over
would send the sea of faces moving towards the green exit
lights.
Xris Lewis closes—
Newest offering from Twentieth Century Fox is "Patton;
Lust for Glory", directed by Franklin J. Schaffner and pro-
duced in Dimension 150 by Frank McArthy. George C
Scott stars in the title role of Patton, and Karl Maiden co-
stars as General Omar Bradley. The film reveals the weak-
nesses and strengths of World War Two's most controversial
general. It contrasts Patton, the ruthless disciplinarian, who
thought Battle Fatigue a poor excuse for Cowardice and who
Ambivalent Ambience
The Ambiance Lunch-
hour Theatre Club (50 Frith
M.Sc. in
MICROWAVE AND
COMMUNICATIONS
ENGINEERING
Full-time or by
components
This M.Sc. course, organ-
ised jointly by the Univer-
sities of Sheffield and
Leeds, can be undertaken
full-time (1 year) or in
components (up to 3 years).
Among the Topics are :
Microwave circuit theory.
Microwave semiconductor
devices.
Waveguide theory-
Information and random
signal theory.
Uses of computer-aided
design.
The Science Research
Council has designated the
course as suitable for ten-
ure of its Advanced Course
Studentships.
For further details write
to either Professor J. O.
Scanlan, Department of
Electrical and Electronic
Engineering, The Univer-
sity, Leeds LS2 9JT, or
Professor P. N. Robson,
Department of Electronic
and Electrical Engineering,
The University, Sheffield
SI 3JD.
Street, London, W l ) , one of
the few outlets for the work
of young and modern play-
wrights, is showing two plays
by David Mowat: The Nor-
mal Woman and Tyyppi.
Both plays are an analysis
and an attack on so-called
normality. The standard of
acting was distinguished not
only in character portrayal
but also in the almost
choreographed production of
the plays. In Tyyppi, Doreen
Mantle plays an interviewee
who finally reveals a facet
of sadism so intense that it
is only credible within the
context of the play. Similarly
in The Normal Woman she
plays a teacher in a mentally
sub - normal ward. The
patients are played by Hilary
Westlake, Michael Mould
and Tony Rohr. The play
follows through to an ob-
vious climax where the tea-
cher is reduced to the child-
like, but sexual level of the
patients.
treated all his own side's dead and wounded as heroes, to
Bradley, the steady, thoughtful, rather mundane professional
soldier. Patton was a great military historian and one is made
to feel sorry for him, because he was continually being
frustrated by the petty squabbles of politicians.
History proved him right on many points. However his
methods were harsh and some might even say immoral, but
then a streak of fanaticism is the mark of a great general.
We are shown the continual struggle between Montgomery
and Patton for the position of Prima Donna of Europe, and
the contrast is marked by the old school boy attitude of
Montgomery and the gross manners of Patton.
There is a certain amount of Blood and Thunder, which
conveys the general mood of war, but all the way through
it, one gets that uneasy feeling that something isn't ringing
quite true. It appears that the whole war was a chess game
between Rommel and Hitler on the one hand and Patton,
Montgomery and Eisenhower on the other. Everything is
just a little too neat. However the main points are well driven
home and war for a change is not made out to be all hero-
ism and fine deeds, although there is little to confirm the
opposing view. As a character study the film is probably
accurate though somewhat glib. George C. Scott gives a
very good performance, probably the best of his long career
and the film is worth seeing just for this. It hold one's
attention throughout and has some very amusing quips. The
photography of course is expensive and good.
War from a different angle is portrayed in Haskell Wex-
ler's brilliant film Medium Cool. It tells the story of a Tele-
vision Film Man and his involvement with the riots of '68
in Chicago. It pays attention to a host of seemingly irrele-
vant but actually very important details. Flashback tech-
nique is used at its best here and not just as gimmick, but
as a way to convey a mood. A host of small incidents like
the one where the cops are more interested in the well-being
of the Convention members than they are in a lost child
bring home the dire distress of the ordinary person, help-
less against the bureaucratic machine. The film man realises
that he and the media men have spent their lives filming
other people without getting involved and when he finds
out that the television station for Whom he works is in the
pay of the local government, he begins to think about his
role. The recent riots on the campuses of America and the
increased involvement of the Americans in South East Asia
against the wish of the ordinary person in the U S A make
this a very relevant film.
C o h e n a s a u t h o r
Leonard Cohen is a Cana-
dian, best known for his
songs and singing. Last week
he gave his first one-man
concert in Britain at the A l -
bert Hall, and just over a
month ago his novel "Beau-
tiful Losers" (Cape 30s.)
was published in Britain.
When I was thinking how
to review the book, one
point that I thought I should
stress was: "It doesn't leave
anything to the imagination"
—Cohen's description of an
ageing scholar swamped with
memories of his dead Indian
wife and homosexual boy-
friend is as frank as it could
be. He goes into intricate de-
tails in describing various
sexual perversions, and if
there are any words he has
been afraid to use, I don't
know them.
Yet, he does leave a great
deal to the imagination. The
book isn't all about cunts
and fucking, though to open
it at any page would give
you that impression; it is
about an old man whose
wife committed suicide by
sitting at the bottom of a lift-
shaft, whose friend F. died
of venereal disease leaving
him to rot in his treehouse in
Quebec. He is obsessed with
a 17th century Indian saint,
Catherine Tekakwitha, the
Iroquois virgin, about whom
he is trying to write a book.
That book is never finished;
the final section of the book
sees the old man fleeing the
police in the city of Quebec.
He is finally insane.
It leaves a great deal to
the imagination because Leo-
nard Cohen's style in writing
this novel is the style of an
established poet and song-
writer, he can write the
thoughts of a deluded per-
vert in all their crudity, but
he can also describe the com-
ing of spring to Canada:—
"It flows over Ontario
like a dream of legislation,
and it sneaks into Quebec,
into our villages, between
our birch trees. In Montreal
the cafes, like a bed of tulip
bulbs, sprout from their cel-
lars in a display of awnings
and chairs. In Montreal
spring is like an autopsy".
Beautiful Losers is worth
reading. It's not pornog-
raphy, but it may be cruel.
If you let the idea that Cohen
has written a book about
perversion turn you against
this book, you must never
have heard anyone sing
Suzanne.
OVERLAND TO
RUSSIA
A L B A N I A
through the BALKANS,
SCANDINAVIA
EASTERN EUROPE
Informal minibus camping
treks for mixed groups of
adventurous young people.
14 to 28 DAY TREKS
FROM £37
'PROTREK' (Dvn.),
100 Rochester Row,
London, S.W.1.
01-834 3981

