TTjE BfTJAQR
OF
CTjEftPSKHTE
It was a somewhat turbulent time in
Cheapskate—a time of change and
renewal. For many of the citizens had
finished their examinations, and the
revellers of the previous night were
trying to sleep off the aftereffects—if not
the memories. Yet their agony was
"matched, if somewhat differently, by
those citizens who were still working
away. However, for some of the delights
of freedom were being enjoyed by those
citizens who had been able to leave the
kingdom. And there were those who it
seemed would never leave
At the top of the Queen's Tower,
some of Cheapskate's more resilient
citizens were involved in a ceremony
which was most indicative of the change
and renewal—and how futile and
ineffective it often was. For the
pretender to the swivelling throne, the
heir apparent for so long, was about to
achieve his final goal. Various citizens'
representatives stood, in a less magical
circle, watching the coronation of Ian
Balls as Citizen's President. Dave
Paralytic and Eric Sloth, the page boys,
stood behind the resplendant Balls
holding the tail of his long, flowing and
flea ridden gown. Mike Dress, who liked
any excuse to put on a new frock and
have his picture taken, stood at their
side. His recently purchased blonde wig
sat less than firmly on his newly polished
head with its thin, wirey strands rustling
in the wind. And, as ever, when they had
By
Juvenal
an opportunity to be out of their office.
Gormless Layon, the citizens' President.
Pristine—the wicked witch of Southside
and the incomprehensible Seanoff Levis
completed the group.
It was with a tear in her eye that
Gormless began to read her lengthy
speech—quantity rather than quality
was her speciality. However, fortunately
for those present, Gormless became
overcome with emotion, and gulping
back a sob, she abandoned her speech
and asked Pristine to pass the much
treasured symbol for a much abused
job—the President's crown. But to
Gormless' distress, Balls' patience had
suddenly come to an end. After waiting
for so long, after so many tedious
committee meetings, sucking up to so
many of the Baron's seedy employees
and having to put up with Gormless for
nearly a year, a few seconds was simply
too long to wait. In true, and indicative,
Napoleonic style Balls grabbed the
crown and placed it firmly upon his head.
"That's it," cried Paralytic, who was
overjoyed that the whole turgid business
had come to such a rapid conclusion.
"Southside everyone," he shouted. "A
special barrel of mead has been laid on at
the citizens' expense!" Such a cry was
even enough to wake Eric Sloth from the
slumber into which he had inevitably
drifted and before you could say 'Jolly
Hockey Sticks' all the menfolk were
halfway down the stairs. Gormless and
Pristine stood toggthjjr—so suddenly
alone. Gormless could no longer control
her emotion and burst into a fit of tears.
For this was not how she had imagined
the event ending. Despite Balls' recent
truculence she had made a special
effort—an extra splash of perfume, or
two, an ultra-tight pair of jeans that
caused her so much agony to put on and
even her skin fitting jumper that she
normally reserved for her elections. But
all these endeavours had been in
vain —now Balls was President
Gormless feared that she had nothing to
offer—well almost nothing. Pristine,
recognising Gormless' distress, offered
her a word of advice from a very old
hand:
"Don't worry Gormless. There's
plenty more fish in the sea," she
suggested comfortingly.
"Well you should know—you've had
half of them," replied Gormless bitchily.
And with her pride severely damaged
Gormless began to make her way back
to the Citizens' Office on her own while
Pristine flew off to Southside.
Change was afoot elsewhere in
Cheapskate that day. Leaning back in a
most comfortable chair, with a
'cigarette' in one hand and a glass of
suitably chilled wine in the other, sat
Dave the Rave the new FALIX Editor.
Despite being from the industrial
homelands, from which Cheapskate had
been so unfortunate to receive Ian Balls,
Dave the Rave had contrived to change
his manner to that of a country
gentleman who would like to be editing a
somewhat more august journal than
FALIX. However, reality had it
otherwise and Dave the Rave began to
discuss his plans for the journal with one
of his colleagues Huge Pigeon, who had
replaced him as the Citizens' Media
Representative.
"
I think I'll introduce a society page,"
said Dave, thinking of all those nubile
'Finding good staff these days is so difficult',mused Dave The R

