NEWS REVIEW
The year at aglance
Summer Time
Blues
The year started controversially for F E L I X
(as promised by the Editor i n his election
campaign). The first issue, in the summer
vacation, severely criticised Michael Arthur,
Student Services Officer, for overbooking of
the Summer Lettings Scheme and alleged
mismanagement. However the scheme was a
financial success.
Also in the first issue, the censorship of
both the Handbook and the Rag Mag by
Gaynor Lewis and Christine Teller was
revealed. In the freshers issue of F E L I X the
censored jokes and editorial comment were
published.
London Student Travel was told to leave its
office on the walkway during the summer
after it was discovered the company was not
paying any rent for the premises. The former
travel shop was later re-opened by the Union
as a regalia shop, misleadingly named the
'Sports Shop'. After extensive negotiations a
new travel office has recently opened in the
JCR operated by S T A .
Faulty Fremantle
Residence issues were again at the fore with
the long running Fremantle Hotel saga.
Andrew Walker, the Fremantle Warden,
resigned in November in mysterious
circumstances. The real reason for him being
asked to resign has never been revealed but it
is widely believed that there were complaints
from residents about the way he performed
his duties as Warden. A great deal of
animosity between M r Walker and Michael
Arthur, amongst others, became apparent
during the row over the resignation. The
situation was further complicated by the
structural problems being experienced in the
Fremantle, with allegations being published
in F E L I X that M r Arthur was to blame for
the situation.
The appointment of M r Walker's successor
was also controversial, the post being filled
without it being advertised. Despite the
continuing structural problems the
Fremantle is being kept for another year
during which time the landlords are unlikely
to make improvements to the property since
the property is likely to be completely gutted
and rebuilt once the College's lease has
expired.
Rag Week in November was also highly
successful, although a planned mini Rag
Week in March was something of a non-
event.
The Rag Fete this term was a considerable
success with a record amount being raised,
largely from students paying to climb up the
Queen's Tower.
A Rag raid by U C L students in February
left a trail of damage in the Chem Eng
department after a lecture was distrupted
with flour and eggs being thrown. Twenty-
two of the Guilds Union shields in the Mech
Eng foyer were stolen, but later returned.
U C L agreed to foot the bill for damage
caused.
Union President Gaynor Lewis having
her name taken during Tiddlywinks.
Rag raises the roof
Rag had a good start to the year with a record
amount being raised in the annual
Tiddlewinks event, this year back on Oxford
Stret after being held on Kings Road last year.
The anti-pornography campaign led by
Michael Newman has continued throughout
the year. A motion banning porn events on
Union premises was successfully defeated by
Mines Union officers at the Freshers' U G M ,
but it was passed at a subsequent meeting. In
order to be able to hold their annual Mines
Revue, which includes a strip show, R S M U
introduced a motion at the third U G M which
specifically allowed any type of event to be
organised by CCUs. Undaunted by the
setback M r Newman tried contacting several
national newspapers, a move which resulted
in a story in the Daily Express concerning
mmgamm *mi
An IC Student cops it as part of a Rag fund raising event at Covent Garden

