'blue' films being shown by R S M U . More
recently M r Newman was banned from
Union premises for defacing Mines
Newsletter artwork in the F E L I X office
which he considered pornographic. When the
Mines Revue was held in March anti-porn
demonstrators picketed the event.
The Phoenix, ICU's literary magazine, was
published earlier this term. For the first time
in many years it caused some controversy by
including a story describing scenes of rape
and violence, written by none other than the
aforementioned Michael Newman.
Bot-Zoo Tea Party
Another story given prominence in F E L I X
during the autumn term was the campaign to
re-open the Bot-Zoo tea room. Due to staff
shortages the tea service had been
discontinued last session, but a campaign led
by Peter Burt, last year's Life Sci Dep Rep,
impressed on the head of department,
Professor Wood, the strength of support for
re-opening the tea room. Despite earlier
statements that the department could not
afford to subsidise it the pressure brought by
the campaign paid off and the service
resumed early in the spring term.
Estates Fiascos
The bungling of the Estates Section of
College has come in for some critical
coverage in F E L I X this year. The re-cladding
of the Electrical Engineering building was
started in November, six years after the
problem of loose tiles was discovered. The
potential trouble which may result from lack
of routine maintenace on College buildings
was featured in the Times Higher Education
Supplement in January.
The repeated delays in the completion of
the new launderette and gym facilities in
Southside were also featured in F E L I X . The
gym changing rooms were completed early
this term, but the gym itself still leaves much
to be desired. At present it is only used by one
Union club. The launderette finally opened
last week, over three months after the original
completion date.
NUS Nonsense
Mews residents complained about this kind of behaviour in Southside.
remove outside telephone lines from IC radio
and STOIC whilst increasing the number of
lines in the Union Office. IC Radio have now
been promised a local line only, but the
l situation is still not resolved.
In the spring term a College notice on the
management of residence was issued by
^College Secretary John Smith. He announced
the appointment of a Managing Surveyor to
look after the maintenance of all residences.
The new post was created on 1 May and is
held by Peter Hallworth, formerly a surveyor
in Estates. Also in the notice was the decision
to put wardens back in the Southside
Penthouse flats. It was only emerged recently
that this will not be effected for at least
another year.
Concern was expressed that the College's
stated policy of reducing the subsidies it
effectively gives the residence accounts would
lead to high rent rises. The rise announced in
May, however, is in line with the grant
increase of 4%. But no assurances were given
about future years by M r Smith when he
addressed an open meeting on residence
policy in Feburary. The College has agreed to
acquire at least 125 additional residence
places to replace those to be lost when the
Fremantle lease expires.
The Elec Eng building which became
famous for its deciduous tiles.
The perennial NUS issue this year took a new
form. Council decided to send two observers
to the Christmas NUS Conference, a decision
which was overturned at a later U G M . The
U G M motion called for the practice of
sending delegates to certain conferences to be
reviewed. When the 'Rodgers Report' on
conferences was published it found that I C U
should continue to send delegates to these
conferences, and subsequently a U G M
approved the sending of two observers to the
NUS Easter Conference. A report of their
visit appeared in F E L I X .early this term.
Delegates were also sent to the International
Conference of Students of Technology
(INCOST) in Helsinki at Easter. A good time
was had by both of them, it seems. This
conference is likely to be held at IC next year.
The N U S president came to speak at a
U G M and was well received, although no
moves to get I C U re-affiliated were started. It
seems there is still little support for the idea of
re-affiliating amongst IC students, but no
doubt the issue will be raised again as usual
next year. The number of big name political
speakers was down on previous years,
although Home Secretary Leon Brittan came
in February.
The Southside Halls of Residence have been
the subject of several stories. At the start of
the year new regulations agreed between
College and the Mews residents were
introduced to cut down on noise from the
building. The fridges on the landings were
ordered off by the fire inspectors, but in the
absence of a practical alternative positon they
have merely been moved into the side
landings. Although originally a temporary
solution this arrangment has now been in
operation for over four months. More
recently the new fire alarm system has been
the cause of annoyance to residents by
frequently going off for no apparent reason,
often in the middle of the night. And the
decision to fit electronic keycard locks to
improve security in Southside has had design
setbacks and they are still not installed.
The new telephone system to be installed
by the start of next session was reported in
F E L I X in N o v e m b e r . Controversy
surrounded the decision by Gaynor Lewis to
Refectories
Refectory matters have not been in the news
much this year, with two exceptions. Firstly
the Union Bar was equipped with a
microwave in January. However, the failure
of the Refectory management to provide a
menu and price list has led to the service being
under-used. It is hoped that the situation will
soon be remedied and that a range of hot food
will be available all evening in this bar.
The other refectory story, and possibly the
major story of the year, is the Union takover
of the refectory in the Union Buidlng. This
outlet has been losing money and custom for
several years and College had hinted that it
might close, the Union put forward proposals
in March for the takeover, and these have
been approved by the College. Plans are
presently being drawn up by the Union
officers for the opening of a new-style snack
bar outlet next term. This is undoubtedly a
m a j o r c h a l l e n g e -*o the U n i o n ' s
resourcefulness; but if succesfully carried out
the potential advantages of having a Union-
run refectory are considerable.

