O n e L a s t R a n t
Now is the time in the year when the FELIX Editor
gets a chance to survey all he sees and have one
last rant before he loses all his super powers and is
transformed back into an obscure nobody once
more.
The Union
This year has been a fairly ordinary year for the
students union. Things have been kept ticking
over, the clubs and societies have been as healthy
and active as ever and there have been a few
improvements in services without any real
improvement in the lot of ordinary students. The
Union's greatest problem, has been that as a body
it has been irrelevant to most of its members. Most
UGMs, even in the first term have been barely
quorate; what an indictment it is when not even 300
people out of a total membership of 4000 are
interested in the Union. One can hardly blame
them when all they get is a list of what Union
officers have already done on their behalf. There
has not been one single decision put to a UGM, not
one issue that a UGM's views have been
consulted. The Union can only become relevant
and of interest to its members if it ceases to be as
autocratic as it has been this year and allows its
ordinary members to take an active part in
decision-making and the running of the Union.
Gaynor Lewis
Gaynor has been a very pleasant and
approachable President. She has worked hard and
conscientiously throughout the year and has
always tried to be helpful to everyone that comes
to see her. I have been critical of her this yea
because she has not been one of the-'rtto'* ule
Presidents. She came into the job without much
experience of the Union or College and has
suffered for it. She has not been able to take a
broad view of the Union and this has led her to
make some very ill-informed decisions. Coming in
fresh faced to College committees has meant she
has continually had to be on the defensive,
responding to proposals put forward by College
and hardly ever putting Union initiatives to
College. College are always ready to take
advantage of inexperience and weakness. She has
been fortunate indeed to have Christine Teller, a
woman of much experience, as her Deputy this
year.
increased by 1000 over night'. But he felt that this
would be 'uneconomical' and 'infeasible'.
The Union should not settle for a paltry one year
out of three or four in College accommodation.
College can get more accommodation if there is
sufficient will. Pressure from the Union could
increase accommodation by 1000 overnight.
Academic Affairs
Academically most students get a good deal from
College. The workload is often high but most of the
courses are the best of their kind in the country.
The only black mark in this otherwise rosy picture
is the teaching ability of some of the lecturers.
These people may be brilliant in their field but have
little idea of how to teach. Lecturer training is
resisted by College because Imperial is primarily a
research centre. One can understand the dilemma
faced by departments; on the one hand their
reputation depends on attracting the best
scientists in the world, on the other they have a
responsibility to provide good courses for their
students. Some departments do make an effort to
take teaching performance into account when
judging promotions and making sure lecturers are
doing their jobs properly but this is by no means
universal. The Union should be lobbying strongly
next year to get some sort of uniform policy in this
area from the Rector.
College
It is often said what a good position we are in in
terms of student representation on College
committees. However when it comes to making
really important decisions, all pretence of
cooperation and consultation goes out of the
window. Admin are always prepared to ask Union
representatives their opinion on certain issues at
College committees and, as demonstrated with the
mid-session price increase, is quite willing to ignore
them completely when it suits them.
Residence
Unless College continue to pay little more lh.in|
lip service to the Union then we can only come to
the conclusion that student representation|
amounts to bugger all at this place.
It is worth remembering that some of the
greatest successes the Union had against College I
in the sixties and seventies were when the Union |
threatened disruption and demonstrations.
Everytime the Union has threatened refectory
boycotts in the past in protest against price rises
the College have climbed down immediately. If
College aren't prepared to cooperate with the
Union then they must be pushed, prodded and
shouted at until they do.
And finally
And now, the end is near, and so I face the final
curtain This year has flashed past so quickly, it
seems just yesterday I was preparing to embark on
editing FELIX. I promised to make FELIX more
controversial, more lively and more entertaining. A
lot of people haven't like some of the things I have
said but I felt a number of things needed saying
straight. It is clear from her interview with FELIX
that Gaynor is in broad agreement with me on a
number of issues. Unlike the President I don't have
to be tactful or pull my punches. When Gaynor
says she thinks Michael Arthur isn't doing his job
as well as he should she really means he's an
arrogant windbag who's far too interested in
sucking up to his bosses in College than helping
students.
Producing FELIX every single week of the term
is a hard and arduous task and it is impossible to
put your best into every issue. Over all 1 have been
pleased with FELIX this year and I hope you have
enjoyed reading FELIX as much as I have enjoyed
editing it.
Have a nice summer!
Pallab Ghosh
1 | J 1 ^ \
ilk
It is often said that Imperial College offers more
accommodation for students than any other
College in London. Never the less it can only
guarantee to accommodate its students for one
year in a House or Hall. At any other university or
college this would be a disgraceful situation. With
the exception of its Princes Gardens Halls,
Imperial College offers some of the most
overpriced sub-standard accommodation around.
The state of some of the Student Houses is
appalling and students are often crammed into
rooms like sardines.
Michael Arthur was given the job of increasing
the number of residences for students. What did
he come up with? The Fremantle Hotel. A
residence which is ill-equipped, falling apart and
costs nearly £30pw!
At a public meeting on Residence this year
College Secretary John Smith said that 'the
amount of College accommodation could be
•Top Row: David Rowe, Jon Jones, John Burgess, Ulysses, Hugh Stiles, David Jones.
Middle Row: Tim Noyce,Hugh Southey, Len Moulder, J Martin Taylor, Matt Fawcett.
Front: Nigel Atkinson, Peter Rodgers, Max Fellows, Diane Love, Nick Shackley, Pete Hobbis.
•Plus: Tony Atkins, Claire Moss, John Scott, Lyme James, Steve Brann, Malcolm Gray,
Steve Goulder, Simon Neild, Guy Riddihough, Carolyn Aldred, Dave Parry, Nick Thexton,
Rich Archer, Pete Coleman, Jonathan Gerson, Peter Burt, Karen Stott and Steve Barnett.
My thanks to everyone who has helped on FELIX this year. It's been greatfun working with you all. It
would be impossible to pick out afew people since every one has worked so well this year. However a
special thanks to J Martin Taylor for (usually) being so reliable with the news and being a constant
source of amusement throughout the year. Jon Jonesfor pasting up so reliably all year. Tim Noyce for
producing his marvellous cartoons on demand so regularlyfor two years. Maz Fellowsfor typesetting
und all her help throughout the year. An extra special thanks to Peter Dawson who has been working
14 hours a day all this week printing this issue.

