BEHIND CLOSED DOORS
On 31 May, subsequent to advertisements
appearing externally in the national press,
staff in Sherfield were notified that the
College intends to appoint a Chief
Accountant. In making this appointment, not
one of the officers in the Finance department
was consulted. Imposed decisions, whether
made by muddled managers, mysterious
masons or mafiosi, will always cause
discontent since they automatically devalue
those most closely affected by the decision.
Responsibility for the secrecy and non-
involvement of the present staff can be firmly
laid at the feet of John Smith. On 30 April he
held a meeting of all administrative officers
ostensibly to brief them on major
developments within administration.
Although a decision had been previously
made to make the appointment and
arrangements were in hand to advertise
externally, no mention of the appointment
was made at the meeting. Surely this was an
act of monumental bad faith.
Why did John Smith need to keep the
appointment secret? The only interpretation
must be that he has something to hide.
Perhaps he considers the position to be a
sinecure and intends bringing in a friend or
another ex-colonial service duffer.
Had Mr Smith or Mr Lloyd-Davies asked
the officers in Finance they would have
discovered a consensus that this
appointment is irrelevant to the needs of the
department. There is also a consensus that
the list of main duties compiled for the new
post is nonsense and that it will totally
mislead any outsider applying for the job.
This latest crassness is not a one-off
exhibition. Shortly after John Smith joined
the College the previous Chief Accountant
retired and an attempt was made to replace
him with a young man who once worked in
the Finance department. On that occasion
the appointment was , seen to be a
catastrophe and there was a revolt on Level 4
culminating in a petition against the
appointment. It is believed the College had to
pay a considerable sum in compensation
when they withdrew the offer of employment.
John Smith has paid lip service to the
provision of management information. Why
does he not use the opportunity afforded by
the retirement of Fred Hollingshead and
Helen Hartley to organise Finance in a
modern manner by creating separate
financial and management accounting
structures within the department?
Unfortunately the choice of Chief
Accountant as a title shows the anachronistic
and old-fashioned thinking which is in
operation. A quick review of Accountancy
Age will reveal that organisations living in this
century do not use this title any more.
Increasingly it seems that the use of the
word 'management' in relation to anything
that happens in Sherfield must be considered
euphemistic.
In support of the above statement it is
possible to point out the manner in which
John Smith has failed to pressurise Estates
and Refectories into adopting an efficient
managerial approach. For example, Victor
Mooney has been forced to relinquish
control of the Union refectory but John
Smith should have compelled him to run it
properly in the first place. Excuses which
Victor Mooney makes about the design of
the outlet and the consequent inadequate
catering are only excuses and do not explain
his own inertia in trying to meet student
demands.
The Estates section has its own style, its
head, Don Clark, is so busy that he has
divested himself of his major responsibilities.
He is so busy that he will be able to attend
Reading University part-time to read for a
business degree. He is so busy that, after an
absence of many months, he has been able to
attend the last two refectory committee
meetings. Who is kidding who?
In as far as John Smith has any discernable
management style at all, on current
performance it appears as a cross between a
Feydeau farce and a Grand Guignol offering.
It is ironicaPthat even now the wealth of-
knowledge and experience available within
the department has been ignored in the
process of formulating future policy. As
things stand the appointment of a Chief
Accountant is deemed by many officers in
the Finance department to be unnecessary
and it could turn out to be yet another very
expensive mistake.
Look
Alike
Sir
Have any of your readers
noticed the resemblance of our
Irish Hon Sec Sean Davis and a
potato?
I wonder if by any chance
they are related?
Yours sincerely
Mr K P Crisp
A. Potato Sean Davis
James Chalmers Senior Assistant
College Secretary—formerly a member of
the Colonial Office working in Malaya, James
Chalmers has been with IC for over twenty
years. He began in Personnel, rising to the
post of Personnel Officer; he was promoted
in 1982 to his current position in
Administration. His demeanour is one of
unhurried confusion, he has an undeniable
gift in his ability to muddy the clearest pool.
His policy in dealing with any problem is to
take the issue to a cool dark cellar and to
leave it to mature for four or five years. He
will, of course check the problem at
respectable intervals to remove dust and
mould. He is often able to surprise John
Smith by the way he insists on allowing
nothing to interfere with this rule. As James
will always tell the interested connoisseur
that many of his very best problems would
cost the College several thousand pounds if
they had to be solved now. But there is
always the possibility that they have been
solved too soon and that the price could have
i increased. However I feel that such a
'development is highly unlikely.
' His technique in choosing a problem to
deal with is quite exceptional. He removes a
sheaf of papers from the random pile in his
! filing cabinet (or cellar as he likes to call it)
and lingers over the date, 1974, '76 and '78
being especially fine years. The yellowing
sheet is passed in front of light so that signs of
; mould or mouse excrement are visible, then
the bouquet of crystallised gin and damp
mould is inhaled. If selected it then joins one
| of the 14 piles that border his desk,
i Many people consider that such skill is
I merely the worst aspect of an old duffer put
'out to pasture, amiably blundering with no
'great effort towards retirement. But to raise
this base role to such an art is an
achievement that leaves people like Jen
Hardy-Smith speechless with admiration.
The Mole

