Puzzles for the Summer Holidays
Welcome to the last Ulysses puzzles column. Next year I want to concentrate
on getting my degree, so it'stimeto hand over to someone else. I'd like to take
thisfinalchance to thank Anatoly, Omar, Sharpshooter, Perola, Rupert Bear,
Neil Thornton, Scaramouche, Rev, Achilles, Nick Williams and anyone else
who has given me a puzzle, many thanks to Mend-a-Bike for sponsoring the
puzzles and to everyone who has ever taken thetimeto try a puzzle. As there
aren't too many people left now, and I've justfinishedmy exams, the puzzles
aren't too difficult. For the last time, good luck everyone, especially to my
successor.
Last week's winner was Adrian Feasby of Maths 1, who was randomly
selected from the eleven correct solutions.
The Interviewees
Three intelligent interviewees come to Primelia College.
There is only one place left. They all seem equal, so the
interviewer, sets a problem for them. The place will go
to the first person to solve it. A mark is placed on the
forehead of each of the interviewees, and the three are
told that it is either black or white, and each is to raise
his hand if he sees a black mark on the forehead of
either of the other two. The first one to tell what colour
he has and how he arrived at his answer will get the
place. Each raises his hand, and after a few seconds,
one of the interviewees comes up with the answer.
What colour was his mark, and how did he work it out?
Riddle
Sir. I bear a rhyme excelling in
mystic words and magic
spelling celestial spirits
elucidate all my own stirrings
can't relate
What is it?
Use the numbers 1,2,3,4,5,
6, 7,8,9 to make
76, Vi, Vs, Vg by expressing
them in fractions. Each
number must be used once
and only once in each.
Find three integers, A, B and C such that
A-B .
A C
A+B
A+C
B+C
are all perfect squares. Since there is more than one
solution, find A, B and C so that A+B+C is a minimum.
All the puzzles carry prizes.
Jhe Secret Life of the College
ecretctry
College Secretary John Smith used to be Governor of
the Gilbert Islands, and hasn't lost his taste for the high
life. He takes the train home each evening and arrives
back at his home station at 5:00pm where he is picked
up by his chauffeur to be whisked home before going off
to live it up at the East India Club. Yesterday, he finished
earlier than usual, and got back to the station at 4:00pm.
He started to walk home, but met the chauffeur coming
to meet him. He arrived home 20 minutes early.
Assuming that the car always travels at the same speed,
how long did he walk before meeting the chauffeur?

