A STAFF REPORTER WRITES
G H O S H ! -
THE TRUTH!
Pallab Ghosh comes from the Far East of
Hemel Hempsted. He came to IC in 1980
where he read physics before taking over as
FELIX Editor.
Pallab is a man who possesses a charming
naivety that only the unkind would term
incompetence. He has unceasingly followed
the Leaning Tower of Pisa school of pasting-
up. His spelling and grammar betray his
Bengali ancestry. He has never driven
anywhere by car without crashing once on
the way there, and once on the way back.
But Pallab has made a genuine attempt to
improve himself. He went on a hugely
expensive typing course, but this only
succeeded in teaching him the 'Eagle'
method of typing. He hovers for some time
before he swoops, one-fingered, onto the
keyboard.
Pallab's first venture into the world of the
media was when he made a video called
Captain Pulsar at school. He was Head
Boy at school (where he earned the
soubriquet 'god') and so was able to
produce, direct, and star in the film, which he
inflicts on his friends on every possible
occasion.
His first bash at being an editor was when he
produced the Wellsian, the newsletter of the
H G Wells Society. This was a great success
and was critically acclaimed as being the best
Wellsian ever produced. This led some
people to believe that Pallab might do a good
job of editing FELIX.
And so it was that he stood for election to
that prestigous post. Almost immediately he
was accused of electoral malpractice by his
opponent. Suffice it to say that nothing was
ever proved, and Pallab was elected.
It was while celebrating his election victory in
the Union Bar that Pallab gave ample
testimony of the shape of things to come by
being violently sick into a bucket d la Mr
Creosote.
Soon after term ended, and Pallab took
office, he developed an embarassing 'crush'
on Gaynor Lewis, the Union President. After
being spurned by Gaynor, Pallab took
advantage of every opportunity to slag her
off in the pages of his organ.
Pallab's naivety has already been touched
upon but another characteristic, equally
evident, is his gullibility. On one occasion he
bet someone that not only did Orson Welles
star in the film Citizen Kane but that also, by
means of trick photography, he was able to
take the part of a small boy as well. Pallab
continues to insist that Boris Karloff was
completely deaf and dumb, despite the fact
that Karloff was renowned for his fine
microphone voice. This wouldn't be so bad
were it not for the fact that Pallab considers
himself to be a bit of a film buff. On one
occasion, when trying to impress his
girlfriend with his knowledge of film, Pallab
was furious to find that every bit of
information that he gave was contradicted by
the man sitting next to them on the tube.
Readers may think this article a little harsh
on Pallab. But rest assured. We in the FELIX
Office think that Pallab is one of the most '
charming and pleasant people we know, and
we wish him all the best in the future,
whatever it may bring.
Pallab Ghosh - FELIX Editor
* YOUR#
STARS.
*
by Gypsy
* * John
LIBRA
(Sept 23—Oct 23)
You are very sympathetic towards others. You are a long
haired dope fiend. You always attend political rallies and
marches, whoever they are in aid of.
SCORPIO
(Oct 24—Nov 22)
You are a very domineering and opinionated person. You
invariably get pissed at parties. You hate thermodynamics.
Most Scorpios are physicists, the rest are unemployed.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov 23—Dec 22)
You have a vivid imagination and are always honest. You
like dissecting frogs and rats. You eat spaghetti bolognaise
for every meal. Sagittarians are often perverted life
scientists.
GEMINI
(May 21—June 21)
You are usually drunk and enjoy expressing yourself. Your
friends think you are a busy-body. You brag about your
machismo, but deep down you know you can do nothing
well. Most Union hacks who pinch road signs are Geminis.
CANCER
(June 22—July 22)
You are a very patient person. You fall asleep during
lectures. You have a large overdraft at the end of every
term. Cancers are usually effeminate and go on CND
rallies.
LEO
(July 23—Aug 22)
You are a very proud and trusting person. Others take
advantage of you because basically you are very stupid.
Estates section comprises mainly of Leos.
VIRGO
(Aug 23—Sept 22)
You are methodical, but your general appearance is a
mess. You enjoy a large sherry with your feet up. Virgos
are rarely virgins. Notable virgos are Gaynor Lewis and
John Smith.
CAPRICORN
(Dec 22—Jan 20)
You are an upholder of IC tradition. This is because you
lack imagination. Capricorns are easily influenced and
many have actually died when told to go jump off the
Queen's Tower. CCU types are often Capricorns. Notable
Capricorn: Michael Arthur.
AQUARIUS
(Jan 21—Feb 18)
You are an amiable person who needs to be around others
because you cannot stand yourself. When alone you do
weird things to your body (see Phoenix-Ed). Most Irish are
Aquarians, Notable Aquarian: Michael Newman.
ARIADNE
(the spider. Feb 29.)
Little is known about this supposedly extinct birthsign.
Strongly connected with the black arts. Christine Teller is
suspected of being Ariadnian.
PISCES
(Feb 19—Mar 20)
Communists
ARIES
(Mar 17—Apr 19)
You have energy and great enthusiasm. Your studious
tendencies are nauseating to others. You attempt,
unsuccessfully to seduce young freshers every year. Arians
frequently jump off high buildings without being told to.
Notable Arieans: Ian Bull, Hitler.
TAURUS
(Apr 20—May 20)
Taureans have a vivid imagination and are always trying
new things. Your friends think you are a pervert. Most
Taureans are black pro-whale lesbian single parents with
left wing tendancies. They do very well in the GLC.

