The Newspaper Of Imperial College Union Founded 1949
College sign agreement with RCA for 60 year lease in Evelyn Gardens
2 0 0 places in Evelyn
for Imperial College
Imperial College looks certain to gain 200 places in student
accommodation for the next academic session. Last Friday the
College exchanged contracts with representatives from the
Royal College of Art, the previous leaseholders of the Evelyn
Gardens property. This effectively finalises the deal, though
the College is still waiting for the Charities Commission to give
formal consent for the project.
Negotiations over the property have
been going on for some time. Two
weeks ago College administrators
were hopeful that they had clinched
the ten Evelyn Gardens houses, but
this later appeared to be in doubt
when another party put in a higher
bid. After further discussions, IC
reached a final agreement to buy the
lease for £4.8 million, which is to be
paid in installments, and have been
given planning permission for
conversion work.
Imperial College will now have
control of the 200 place residence for
just over 61 years, after which the
lease, originally taken for 70 years in
September 1987 by the RCA, comes
to an end. This means that the lease
will expire at about the same time as
the rest of the College's residences in
Evelyn Gardens.
It is expected that the new houses
will enable the College to maintain the
guaranteed places in residence to all
first year undergraduates and first
year overseas postgraduates, at least
for the immediate future. For the last
two years, these guarantees have
looked in considerable jeopardy,
when residence places came to be
allocated at the end of the summer
vacation. In an interview with FELIX
earlier this week the Rector, Professor
Eric Ash, said that the 200 places
would be "an enormous help" in
preserving the guarantees of College
places in residence, and described the
project as "one of the most cheerful
things of recent times". Union
President Christine Taig has
expressed her support for the Evelyn
Gardens project throughout the
discussion period, despite the
inevitable increase in student rents. At
last Tuesday's ICU Annual General
Meeting she confirmed that the
project was likely to go ahead,
explaining that money was better
spent on cheaper accommodation for
as many students as possible, as in
Evelyn Gardens, rather than on a new
"luxury hall" on the Northside of
Prince's Gardens, as has been
proposed.
The most immediate effect of the
new residence in Evenlyn Gardens
will be a significant rent increase in
all other College Halls and Houses.
Though the exact level of the
increases will vary significantly
depending on interest rates, which
may be affected by the result of the
General election, there are provisional
figures for increases as from next
autumn. On average College rents
will have to increase by £3.50 from
October, with further increases of
£2.50 and £ 1.83 in October 1988 and
October 1989. The distribution of
these increases is still to be decided
by the Student Residence Committee.
It is expected that the rent increases
in student houses will have to be more
than those in the more expensive halls
of residence in order to prevent the
hall becoming too expensive for most
students.
College Assistant Secretary
Michael Arthur said that some of the
200 places should be ready for
students by October, but thought it
unlikely that the new residence would
be in full use at the start of term,
bearing in mind recent delays in
conversion work carried out over the
summer.
Of the 200 new places, there are
likely to be 75 in single rooms, 74 in
double rooms, and a further 74 in
triple rooms. In addition there will be
between 27 and 32 places in student
flats.
Temporarily shelved: an artist's impression of Northside Hall
Freel Friday M a y 2 2 n d , 1 9 8 7 No. 7 7 2

