Sabbaticals FELIX, Friday May 22nd 1987 5
Gross hypocrisy
Summer is very definitely on its way;
I can tell because the level of craziness
in the Office has risen to new heights,
even if the amount of work hasn't
decreased. Visitors to ICU Office
shouldn't be surprised to see various
of us singing operatic excerpts,
skating round the floor on bits of
cardboard and generally showing
distinct signs of craziness. I wonder
if it's possible to last more than a year
in any job without cracking up
completely?
Meanwhile, the endless round of
College and Union committees
becomes considerably more lively as
caution and diplomacy are thrown to
the wind. The best example of this so
far was Dave Colley at last Friday's
Governor's meeting, normally the
most formal of occasions. Dave,
having a go at the College Secretary
over parking permits, was enjoying
himself so much that Jackie and I
were rolling up our sleeves and
preparing to restrain him, should he
have attempted physical violence.
But now, on a more serious note
Freedom of Speech
The College has drafted a set of
guidelines in response to the Eduction
(No 2) Act 1986 (Section 43—
Freedom of Speech in Universities,
Polytechnics and Colleges). The basis
of this is that the Union cannot refuse
to hold a speaker meeting on its
premises (so long as it is a legitimate
club activity) on grounds of policy or
beliefs or objectives of the speaker or
his/her organisation. If it's felt that
such a meeting will cause trouble, the
matter can be referred to the College
Secretary for a binding decision.
This document is unlikely to affect
IC Union in its current state as our
'political' activity is almost non-
existent. The Act has already had real
meaning though for colleges like the
London School of Economics. There,
the Union was forced to allow
meetings of extreme right-wing
groups to take place on its premises
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Would all clubs and societies who
still haven't given me the info of
your next year committee, Please do
so A S A P or there may be problems
with your Freshers' Fair stall and
various other little goodies for next
year!
Thank you,
Kathy Tait, Union Receptionist
even though a clear majority at a
UGM objected to their premises being
used for these purposes.
I am not debating the rights and
wrongs of 'No Platform' policies
here. However it is worth noting that
the Education Act—which effectively
reduces the power of colleges to
determine what happens on their
premises—coincides with the
introduction of the Public Order Bill,
which gives the police power to veto
any demonstration or gathering in a
public place. It is also interesting that,
at a time when the government is
reducing funding to colleges and
expecting them to become more
financially autonomous,
administrative and political
restrictions such as this are
multiplying. I for one see this as gross
hypocrisy.
AIDS
I apologise for the apparent
inactivity on the AIDS information
campaign. I am currently waiting for
the Health Education Unit to send me
8000 booklets which I ordered several
weeks ago. If this is a measure of the
urgency which the 'official' national
bodies accord to such a campaign then
I am more grateful than ever that the
Terence Higgins Trust exists, to
supply confidential help and advice to
anyone worried about AIDS. I am
very glad that IC Rag have decided
to support the Trust throughout the
1987/88 session.
The Terence Higgins Trust helpline
can be reached on 833 2971 (7—10pm
weekdays, 3—10pm weekends). A
selection of leaflets are available
from: IC Union, Campus Trades
Union Offices, The Health Centre,
The Welfare Centre and the Personnel
Office).
Finally
When you leave, wouldn't you like
to be able to carry on using College
and Union facilities and to keep
involved with your favourite clubs
and societies? If so, you can become
a Life Member for the paltry sum of
£15.00 (minimum). See Kathy in IC
Union Office for further details.
That's it for now,
See you,
Christine.
TIZARD AND SELKIRK HALLS
Sub-wardenship and Assistant Sub-wardens'
Applications are invited for the posts of sub-warden and
two of assistant sub-warden in Tizard Hall and one post
of assistant sub-warden in Selkirk Hall. The posts are open
to all students and staff of the College, but preference will
be given to postgraduates or final-year undergraduates
who have experience of living in student residences.
The roles of the sub-warden and assistant sub-warden are
to assist the warden in the day-to-day organisation of the
social life and discipline of the Hall. Applications
comprising a C V and names of two referees should be
sent by 1st June to the Warden, Dr M H R Hutchinson,
Tizard and Selkirk Halls, Prince's Gardens, London SW7.
HAIR BRAINED
Cut %' Blow Dry £5.00
Wednesday 9.00am to 6.00pm
in the Ents Room (above the
New FELIX Office)

