Feature
• 1
l IHE ART OF NVISM
M
• • •' • * .
• # M# #
« • • • » • < • » • • • iwl^s
Since the 1960's, the synthesizer has
become one of the most common
instruments in modern music. Their
spread so worried the British Musicians
Union that, in 1982, it threatened to
outlaw computers and drum machines
from recording sessions. When the
Moog synthesiser was introduced in
1965, Phil Spector was producing soul
records using full orchestras and
choirs—it was the only way he had to
produce the lush background sounds that
he wanted for songs like You've Lost
That Loving Feeling, by the Rightchous
Brothers. Just ten years later soul groups
were using a single Moog, and its
relatives like the Oberheims, Arps and
Korgs to supply the very same type of
effects. String and brass synthesizers
were designed specially for the new
market. Where Spector needed an
orchestra of over 30 performers, the new
groups required one or two electronic
keyboards.
It was the development of the cheap
transistor that allowed the production of
the synthesizer, and the microchip its
proliferation. Electric keyboards from
firms like Casio are now replacing
electric organs in the expanding home
market. The sounds of one-fingered
versions of Vive Espana to Bosa Nova
rythms played on cabinet-sized organs
are giving way to pre-programmed
songs backed by sophisticated drum
machines no larger than a briefcase. But
attempts to design synthesizers have
been made throughout the 20th century;
their efforts always thwarted by the lack
of technology capable of taking their
ideas.
The first attempts at producing music
using electricity, in the closing stages of'
the 19th century, were mere toys
compared with the vision of Thaddeus
Cahill, a keen inventor and musician
from America. Elisha Gray, more
famous with his battle over the invention
of the telephone with Alexander Graham
Bell, had designed a machine he called
the "musical telegraph". He had found
his nephew playing with a strange
electrical circuit involving a metal reed
vibrating against a metal bathtub in the
summer of 1874. Inspired by this, he
designed a set of parallel circuits to
produce an instrument that played over
an octave's range. However, Gray
dropped the project to continue his
research into the telephone system. It
was taken up by German, Ernst Loranz,
who, in 1885, devised a way of
controlling the sound envelope—the way
a note begins and ends.
Along with the 'Singing Arc' of
William Duddell, an English physicist,
these instruments were mere drawing
room curiosities. Cahill's Telharmonium
project was a far more serious attempt,
prevented from success by the lack of
suitable technology at the time. His idea
was to broadcast the sound from his
instrument over the telephone lines to
listeners wearing headsets far away, or
to loudspeakers hidden discreedy behind
aspidistras in hotel foyers.
The method he used to generate the
individual notes in the machine was to
the noise put out by
the motors could
have easily drowned
the music.
have a 'rheotome' (a type of primitive
alternator) for each note. It consisted of
a brush rubbing against a cogged wheel;
the intermittent contact would produce
an oscillating electrical signal, in this
case a pure sine wave. Thus the note
produced by an individual rheotome
would have similar tonal qualities to
those played on the higher keys of a
flute. Cahil was a keen student of tonal
physics and realised that this sound
would be too thin and reedy, and so for
each note he used five rheotomes,
corresponding to the fundamental and
the various harmonics. These harmonics
could be taken out if desired, but if left
in gave an effect akin to a real musical
ms'trument. His original specification
called for 408 individual rheotomes, but
he only ever used 144 in the last, and
largest instrument. After demonstrating
a small prototype version to prospective
backers, he was put in touch with
various investors by George
Westinghouse of the now multi-national
electrics company. With this financial
support he built his second
Telharmonium—an instrument that
weighed 200 tons and used up to 15
kilowatts of power. At the turn of the
century there were no vacuum tubes, no
way of amplifying a signal to any great
degree. This meant that each rheotome
required an eleven inch shaft of steel,
each note about 6 feet, and a whole
octave, 30 feet. In order to supply the
required six or seven octaves the
machine had to be massive. It was
fortunate that the output of the
Telharmonium was transmitted; the
noise put out by the motors themselves
could have easily drowned the music
In 1906 the machine was upgraded to
itsfinalform and moved to New York.
However the telephone transmissions
brought complaints about interference
with the network, and imperfections in
the machine itself caused the business
to fall apart in 1911, despite widespread
interest.
In 1920, Russian scientist Leon
Theremin developed his own
instrument, using the newly invented
technology of the wireless. It had no
moving parts, and so may be described
as the first totally electronic musical
instrument. The Theremin, as it was
later christened, was played by moving
the hands around two aerials protruding
from its cabinet—one controlling pitch
and the other loudness. This way of
controlling the instrument was its major
downfall; it meant that it was only ever
capable of producing rising and falling
glissandi effects. While impressive at
first, they quickly bored composers.
Until the invention of the modern
synthesizer, the Theremin found a niche
in movie sound effects—used quite
prominently in the sciencefictionclassic
The Day the Earth Stood Still. Despite
its short-lived popularity, the Theremin
appeared once again forty years later,
when Robert Moog, inventor of the
Moog synthesiser, financed himself
whilst getting his physics doctorate by
selling a transistorised version of the
Theremin at 50 dollars apiece. One of
those instruments then featured on the
Beach Boys' Good Vibrations, and it is
still being used by avant-garde
performer Youssef Yancy.
The Theremin spawned renewed
interest in electronic music, and related
instruments quickly appeared. The
1930s brought a new emphasis. Up to
this point the new technology was
designed to produce brand new sounds,
but now electric organs and electric
pianos were beginning to be
developed—instruments that would
mimic their acoustic counterpoints,
using similar tone-generation principles.
Thefirstelectric organ, designed by
Laurens Hammond in 1929, used the
same tone wheel idea as Cahill's
Telharmonium. But Hammond had the
benefit of the newly invented thermionic
valve and the associated amplifier
circuits. Modern organs now have
totally electronic oscillators, but
Hammond paved the way for the organs
that would be used by jazz and rock
combos around the world. The
Hammond itself, despite being in
essence a very primitive device, lived
on right into the seventies, forming a
great deal of the sound of groups like
Procul Harum and Van der Graaf
Generator.
The other instruments to be developed
at this time were existing ones that were
to be electrically amplified rather than
imitated. The piano was thefirstto be
given the treatment, developed by
classical piano makers, Bechstein and
Son in the late 20s. Individual pickups
over each string converted the vibrations
into electrical impulses to be fed through
valve amplifiers. Similarly the electric
guitar was introduced by the Electro
String Company using Adolph
Rickenbacker's designs during the early
30s. Ironically, it took the further
development of synthesizers for
composers to realise that these
instruments could easily be treated to
produce new sounds. The modern fuzz-
box was made only after rock musicians
of the 60s found that their valve amps
distorted the output from their electric
guitars by a process known as 'clipping',
producing a much rawer-edged sound.
The fuzz-box produces the same effect
without seriously damaging an
amplifier, coupled with the fact that the
newer transistorised versions do not
distort in quite the same way. Other
effects such as Wah-Wah and Distortion
Multipliers were soon to follow.
The first true synthesizer was
produced by RCA in 1955, and named
after its designers, Harry Olson and
Herbert Belar. The machine took up the
better part of the studio it was housed
in—like the computers of the day, any
ambitious synthesizer had to be that big
to house the required number of valves.
The tone generators were
electromechanical, like the
Telharmonium and the Hammond before
it, this time an arrangement of tuning-
fork oscillators, conforming to the
twelve note scale. Hammond himself
had tried to introduce an instrument—
the Novachord—in 1939 which featured
over one hundred valves, and
unprecedented sound-shaping controls.
The machine, however, was plagued by
technical difficulties surrounding the
complexity of the instrument; difficulties
that had been ironed out by the mid-50s.
Olson and Belar had forseen that the
largest use for a synthesizer would be
in the popular music market, and
designed it to imitate existing
instruments rather than to produce
entirely new sound. As such it had more
in common with the modern home-
organ, but it was a premonition of the
string and brass synthesizers that were
to appear twenty years later. Despite
their original intention for the machine,
popular music artists were never able to
use it. The majority of its use came from
experimental composers and researchers
into using computers in music.
It was the invention of the transistor
that opened the door to mass-produced
synthesizers for the popular market.
barking dogs, choirs
and scraped paving l
stones could all be
played like a piano.
Working independently, Donald Buchla
and Robert Moog were developing very
similar systems, introducedfinallyin the
mid-60s. The new approach to music-
synthesis was a voltage controlled
system, which defined pitch, tone,
modulation and the envelope
characteristics of a sound. It meant that
oscillators could affect other oscillators
to produce entirely new waveforms, and
in turn control other features of a sound.
Even the tone generators were now an
electrical circuit—the transistor circuit
that appears on many a problem sheet.
The Moog design quickly became the
most popular, despite Buchla's use of a
sequencer, not least due to the fact that
the Moog had a traditional keyboard
while the Buchla had a touch-sensitive
plate. The original Moog design was a
modular studio system, toofragileto go
on the road with bands. This was soon
remedied by the introduction of the
Mini-Moog, a smaller and far more
robust version. Other companies soon
began to introduce their own models
based on the voltage controlled system,
like Oberheim, Korg, Roland and EMS.
The EMS VCS3 was thefirstthat many
musicians ever toyed with as it was far
cheaper than many of its counterparts,
and also quite unreliable. These early
synthesizers were all monophonic—only
one key would play at a time. This fact
caused a lot ofridiculefor synthesizer
players from'their more highly trained
contemporaries playing guitars and
pianos. Bands like Queen and Boston
proudly displayed "no sythesizers used"
on their record sleeves in the hope that
virtuoso playing meant better music.
Queen eventually succumbed to the lure
of the artificial in 1979 by featuring an
Oberheim quite heavily.
By this time polyphonic keyboards
had been introduced by Moog and
Oberheim, as sythesizers moved in to
take over the electric organ market.
Simple computers were soon
incorporated into the instruments with
the introduction of Sequential Circuits'
best seller, the Prophet 5. This keyboard t -
could remember patches that a player
had programmed in before and call up
the settings automatically. This idea
became the basis of Casio's range of
home synthesizers, sophisticated toys
that could remember tunes as well as
sounds and replay them to pre-
programme backing tracks.
Home-computers quickly saw the
impact that built-in sound generators
could have in their machines and soon
introduced the VIC-20 and the Sinclair
Spectrum. They were vastly inferior to
their true synthesizer parents, but
showed how useful computers could be
in music-production. The
Commodore-64 featured a far more
sophisticated sound-system, but the truly
professional system, such as those used
on the Apple, required separate
keyboards and synthesizer units.
Even Moog's design was not ideal; a
new wave of digital machines was being
introduced, thefirstbeing the Synclavier
(1975). The advent of the integrated
circuit had made it possible to make
synthesizers that worked on frequency
modulation rather than the old style
amplitude modulation, as in the Moogs
and Oberheims. The digitisation of
waveforms made it possible, at least in
theory, to shape them on a
microcomputer to produce custom-built
sounds of great complexity. As
computer speed increased, so more
detail could be packed into a waveform.
The result was the Fairlight Computer
Musical Instrument, unveiled in 1979.
It made it possible to design complete
sounds on a computer screen and then
play them over a six octave range, it also
had the feature of recording sounds
through a microphone and analysing
them into their components so that
barking'dogs, choirs and scraped paving
stones could all be played like a piano.
The sampler had arrived.
Such was the complexity of the
machine that unless a musician was
willing to spend months training on the
instrument, as artists like Peter Gabriel
and Larry Fast had, special technicians
had to be drafted in to program them—
creating a whole new breed of
instrument technician, mid-way between
a session musician and a roadie.
Numerous samplers followed, ranging
from £700 'toys' like the Casio SK-1
with its tiny noises through to
Synchaviers costing over £30,000.
With these new machines there seems
to be little room for development, apart
from the addition of more memory to
produce clearer sound—the only goal
left now is to make them easier to use,
and cheaper.
But in less than a century, progress
has moved at such a rate that one
electronic instrument can almost replace
all others. Whether this is good for the
music industry, or merely setting upon
the road of endless records using
identical bland sounds of massed choirs
and orchestras, still remains to be seen.

