F E L I X 1 3
aiEcoapg
P a u l E k p e n y o n g
James Brown — His Hell
Polydor Super Double 2659 036.
THEY DO not call him The Godfather
of soul for arbitrary reasons. This double
album is solid proof of his reputation.
Man is he strong. From the exciting
hard rutting funky-soul to the cool
rhythmic groovy soul the whole show is
magnificently executed in the true James
3rown style.
With an album of this calibre one has
to search very hard for loopholes in
accomplishment. The title track 'He//'
expresses a comment on society and the
lyrics are good, two lines of which are
'It's hell tryin' to do it by yourself
and 'In the White House it's hell'.
Musically it is not one of the best tracks
on the album.
There are some old tunes included
such as 'Please, Please, Please', 'A
Man Has To Go Back To The Cross
Roads', and 'My Thang'. The latter was
released as a single quite a while ago
and sounds very much like 'Doing the
Funky Chicken'. The former are excellent
pieces of musical accomplishment as
regards soul music.
The last track on record two is the
only track and is called 'Papa Don't
Take No Mess'. A trifle too long for my
liking but it is good all the same. Well
after rambling on for a bit I suggest that
you should get this album if you are
really into this type of music.
A n d r e w O s b o r n e
ZZEBRA by Zzebra (Polydor)
NOT TO BE confused with the animal
of the same name this band has a double
z'. This means that those of us civilised
enough to stack our records in alpha-
betical order find it right on the end and,
when in some variety of stupor, we
blindly select an album to groan along
with it is likely to be the forementioned
Zzebra. This name was a devious ploy
because there are few other reasons for
playing the album.
The six-man band has a fairly un-
inspiring history. Guitarist Terry Smith
and saxophonist Dave Quincy were with
the tolerable '//', singer Gus Yeadon
was in the appalling 'Love Affair',
multi-instrumentalist Loughty Amao came
from 'Osibisa', finally John McCoy
(bass guitar) and Liam Genockey (drums)
joined from 'Curtis Muldoon'. Their only
claim to fame thus far is a single/theme
tune 'Zardoz' based on Beethoven's 7th
symphony (such sacrilegious behaviour
can never be forgiven).
The album kicks off in very low key
with 'Cobra Women', so that you hardly
notice it's started. The tempo increases
for the tedious 'Mr. J' which is followed
by 'Mah Jong', an instrumental which
sounds like the theme tune to some I TV
current affairs programme, but does
contain some tasty wah-wah sax. The
side glides out in much the same way
as it started with 'Ife'.
Zzebra's music has been described
as 'laid back' but it seems that that's
just a polite way of saying unexiting.
Their criss-cross rhythms explode with
monotony.
Side two contains the two best tracks
'Amuso Fi' and 'Rainbow Trains although
both are extended so long that they
outlive their merit.
The band claims that they cannot be
categorised and anyone who tries it is a
bore leading a completely regimented
life. Maybe, but one of my favorite
pastimes is putting things in nice label led
pigeon-holes; only when a band defies
my classification crusade do I become
one of their fans. Zzebra are indubitably
jazzy afro-rock, vaguely reminiscent of
Osibisa. If that's what you like, you
might like this.
Finally, 1 feel I should say if Zzebra
are at the crossing they are in grave
danger of being mown down. Zzzzzzzzz!
F I L M S
R i c h a r d W a r i n g
JUGGERNAUT.
J HAVE read the reviews for this film
in the papers and the critics say that it's
a very entertaining film. You can take it
from me that they are right for once. The
film gripped me and just about had me
off the front of my seat in the closing
minutes.
The basis of the plot is that someone
calling himself 'Juggernaut' (hence the
title) has planted seven large bombs
aboard the ocean liner 'Britanic' (cap-
tained by Omar Sharif). Juggernaut
demands half a million pounds to say how
to dismantle the bombs before they
explode at dawn the next day. A bomb
squad under Commander Fallon (Richard
Harris) is flown out and parachuted into
a gale to join the liner. The remainder
of the film is taken up with the race
against time. Will the police catch
Juggernaut to make him 'spill the beans',
will the bomb disposal squad manage to
defuse the bombs or BANG. Also the
film quickly surveys the effect all this
has on the one thousand, two hundred
passengers and crew aboard the 'Britanic'.
There are a number of interesting
little side complications which add to
the tension of the situation in one way
or another, for instance: the family of
the policeman in charge of the invest-
igation is aboard the liner. Good one
this, it has the policeman biting his
nails every time someone holds up his
investigation. It's also one of those
films where you have actors who keep
turning up time and time again in the
supporting roles;— 'Er... wasn't he in ..•.'
I can never remember the names of these
people who add so much to the film
(this time is no exception I've lost the
bumph sheet on the film). However I do
remember a particularly good performance
in this category: Roy Kinnear as the
ship's entertainment officer who is given
the unenviable task of carrying on as if
nothing has happened and keep all the
passengers happy too.
Possibly the idea for the plot was
taken from the incident last year when
bomb experts were dropped onto the
QEII after bomb threats, though there
proved to be no bombs aboard then.
I will not spoil your enjoyment by giving
away any of the twists in the plot (and
they keep on coming right to the end),
but I will advise you to see it, for your
own nail-biting session. With bombs in
the plot how could they fail?

