£ N T S CONCERTS
S A T 2nd A L STEWART a n „ . n n .
80p i.e. 90p adv 1.00 door
SAT 9th PROGOL HARUM
1.20 i.e. 1.30 adv 1.50door
TICKETS AVAILABLE FROM UNION OFFICE EVERY WEEKDAY LUNCHTIME.
IC STUDENT DISCOUNT ONLY GIVEN ON PRODUCTION OF REGISTRATION CARD
(2 TICKETS ONLY)
D I S C O E V E R Y F R I D A Y O N L Y l O p
in union lower refectory 8 - 1 1 - 3 0 p m
FILMS
T H U R S 7 zabriski point p | a y j t again sam
THURS 14 tora! tora! fairport convention
ALL FILMS SHOWN IN MECH. ENG. 220 AT 6-30pm
Ijinduraj Expedition
C o l i n B r o w n
AN Imperial College expedition —
Colin Brown, Bruce Hooker, Harry
Hooker, Neville Jordison, Bruce Little-
wood and Rob Wild — climbed for five
weeks in the Koyo Zom group at the
head of the Chitral Valley, N-E! Pakistan
in July/August, 1974. Permission from
the authorities to climb Thur II (21,401 ft)
was refused at the eleventh hour hence
our knowledge of the Koyo Zom group
and its main peak Koyo Zom (22,545 ft)
was sparse.
We left London on June 17th with all
food and equipment in an Austin K9
ex-army wagon, and drove almost non-
stop to Islamabad in Pakistan. The
journey across Europe and Middle-East
Asia has sectionsof remarkable contrast -
the lush Alpine scenery and the arid
deserts of Afghanistan, the monotonous
route through Iran and the impressive
roads over the Jalalabad and Khyber
Passes, etc. Nevertheless, we were
pleased to arrive at Chitral town, the
last large administrative town up the
valley.
From Chitral, we hired jeeps to
transport us and our gear to the road-
head, seventy miles further on. The
'road', a tortuous dirt-track winding its
way along the side of the River Yarkhun,
quickly degenerated intoa mere footpath.
At this point we hired porters and
donkeys for the 112 mile walk to our
proposed base-camp at the tiny village
of Pechus. Eight gruelling. days later
we arrived. We had left the realities of
the 'civilised' world. After two weeks
reconnaissance on the Ghatlboi, Pechus
and Koyo Glaciers, it was agreed that a
high camp at 16,650 ft on the Pechus
Glacier should be established for an
attempt on the east ridge of Koyo Zom
and several adjacent peaks of over
20,000 ft.
On August 6th, Bruce L and Rob
made the first ascent of a snow peak
(19,800 ft) to the east of Koyo Zom.
The weather was fairly predictable,
two or three days of low cloud and snow
every five days, and so the attempt on
KoyO Zom was planned with this in mind.
On August 16th, Bruce H. and Harry
retreated from the east ridge after a
lightweight attempt from the second
high camp (19,500 ft) on the upper
plateau of the glacier. The next day,
Rob and Bruce L. bivouacked at 21,000 ft
and reached the summit at 15.00 hours
on August 18th after'two days of mixed
snow and rock climbing. Their descent
was made more interesting by a 200 ft
fall at 22,000 ft when Bruce slipped
and plucked Rob's belay from the rock.
Fortunately the rope jammed and they
managed to descend without serious
injury. At the upper plateau, they met
the Hooker twins who had just climbed
two neighbouring 20,000 ft peaks. All
four descended to the first high camp
where Colin and Nev. were waiting
after an unsuccessful attempt on a
nearby rock peak.
We struck base-camp on August 23rd
and walked the 100 miles to the road-
head in glorious sunshine, sampling
the abundant variety of fruit which
grows freely, at the roadside. The rest
of the journey to London followed the
same pattern as the journey outwards
with however, a few more stops at
Kabul, Istanbul and other interesting
parts of the world. We eventually arrived
at Ramsgate to be greeted by our first
serious rain for fourteen weeks.

