T H E N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E UNION
0/S Students' Fees Up 20%
Huge cuts in education expenditure and yet another massive fee
increase for overseas students are the order of the day following the first
Conservative Budget on Tuesday.
Instead of the 9 per cent fee increase for home and overseas students
announced by the previous Government, overseas students will now be
faced with a 20 per cent rise on this year's fees. Overseas postgraduates
will now be paying over £1,100 to attend British Universities.
There is no further rise in home students' fees which remain as listed
below. This means that the fee differential which the College is pledged
to oppose is now even greater than before.
Union President Mary Attenborough is to meet the Rector on Friday
and is hoping for a joint statement opposing the increases.
A m o n g the cuts is a massive reduction in university capital
expenditure from £17.6 million to £9.9 million, part of a total capital
expenditure saving in the whole of the education sector of £14 million.
Mary Attenborbugh is worried that the College may now be forced to
delay furnishing the Linstead Hall extension.
A £5 million cut in the research council grants is bound to have its
effect on postgraduate grant awards and research projects.
The Union are also worried that the 1 - 1.5 per cent reduction in
universities' general expenditure will mean a further cut in the IC Union
budget for next year.
With these devastating announcements coming just two weeks
before the end of term the Union will find it difficult to organise the mass
protests which should be every student's response to this Government.
But Mary Attenborough says that the Union will continue to oppose
discrimination against overseas students stepping up their campaign.
She had warned that a Tory Government would attack overseas
students but was shattered by the extent of the education expenditure
cuts.
This Conservative Government came to power on a platform of
opportunities for all. Just six weeks after their election they have totally
given the lie to that claim as far as higher education is concerned
Imperial College Sessional Fees 1979-80
Undergraduates:
U K Students £595
Overseas Students £770
Postgraduates:
U K Students £890
Overseas Students £1,010
The College will operate a Hardship Fund to assist students still on
courses who entered the College before October 1978 and who have
been adversely affected by the increases in fees in October 1976,1977
and 1978. No allowance will be made for the October 1979 fee increase.
Assistance will be in the form of partial remissions of fees and will be
restricted to those students who are responsible for paying their own
fees.
Students proceeding from a first degree to a higher degree or from
M S c to research in session 1979-80, will not be eligible for assistance
from the Fund.
Forms can be obtained from Mr J Bevan, Rm 344, Sherfield Building.
Union Welfare Advisei
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
P R O B L E M
Imperial College students are likely to face an even worse
a c c o m m o d a t i o n p r o b l e m than last year when they return to
L o n d o n in September, and according to Welfare Adviser
Michael A r t h u r the College is doing next to nothing about it.
While m a n y other London Colleges are contacting Local
Authorities, taking on head tenancy schemes and setting up
housing associations, Imperial College have only taken on one
head tencancy scheme in L e x h a m Gardens, and that only after
considerable pressure f r o m the Union.
MichaeI A r t h u r is worried that il the College sit back and do nothing
I C students will lose out as other Colleges take up the limited housing
available.
The College attitude is summed up in a statement by the
Administration quoted in the Union's Alternative Prospectus'.
They say: '(.are should he taken in conducting publicity campaigns about the
scarcity of accommodation for Imperial {.allege, students in order not to discourage
potential students from applying lo Ibe College'.
A n d a senior member of Administration is quoted as saving that so
long as students can lind somewhere to live no matter what or where,
there is no problem.
M i c h a e l A r t h u r believes that College have no idea what rent
students are paving and in what conditions they are living. In an
accommodation survey carried out last term he found that 40 percent
of students responding were paying over £15 per week in rent alone.
M a n y students are living far from College like Hackney and
Streatham and large numbers live in Hats and bedsits where there are
inadequate working facilities. conld. on back page

