^age 11
c C R I C K E T
IC SUNDAY XI 94 all out
PRESIDENTS XJ 95 for 9
As usual the Sunday team was short of a player, thanks to
T o m l i n s o n who did not appear due to an all-night party. Toplis
having won the toss, m u c h to his delight, elected to bat, but
soon regretted his decision. None of the recognised batsmen
made any significant contributions with the unfortunate
Toplis only managing to get his gloves to a rising ball which
then flew to slip. Price batted well despite his fetish for being
hit on the feet by any ball which came near h i m , and this
ultimately led to his downfall being L B W at 45 and so stopping
h i m f r o m buying a jug. After the departure of Price and his
faithful sidekick Vincent who put on 51 together, the tail
collapsed with the last 4 wickets putting on only 3 runs.
T h e miserable total was mainly due to the pedestrian bowling of
former IC cricket club captain Williams who finished with figures of 11
overs 10 maidens 5 for 5, the last victim being Heath who seemed
determined to give Williams his 5th wicket and so enabled h i m to buy a
jug. Shortly afterwards it was noticed that Miss Attenorough was
reprimanded for drinking on licensed premises out of hours while
showing the Swedish visitors around Harlington, and then in spite,
stopped M e l K i n k i e making up the numbers in the field.
Chasing the rather ordinary
total of 94 the Presidents X I got
off to a great start with both
openers going for 0, M i l l a r d and
Toplis getting one apiece, the
latter due to a good catch from
make-shift wicket-keeper Care,
the only ball he managed to hold
all afternoon. M i l l a r d and Toplis
hogging the bowling steadily
worked their way through the
batting until the hard-hitting
Jenkins arrived in the middle
where he put on 20 with Perkins
and 31 with a 12 year old
schoolboy S Weale. Both M i l l a r d
and Toplis, their compassion
aroused, refused to get the
youngster out, so he promptly
clipped the ball between the
cluster of close fielders and then
when Toplis finally allowed 2
overs from Price, hit him lor 4.
W h e n Jenkins was finally out for
Team: Mylvaganam, Slator, Toplis,
Chadband, Heath.
37, thanks to a remarkable catch
from Price despite the efforts of
Roche, who looked determined to
knock the ball out of his hands,
only 15 runs were needed. Weale S
and Weale K , promptly knocked
these off although Weale S
provided some excitement by
being the 9th wicket to fall with
the scores l e v e l . W i t h a
magnificent chance to tie the
match, Roche was unlucky to
misjudge a high chance which in
fact led to the winning run. Toplis
again finished with 5 wickets, but
• true to form declined to honour
the team with the customary
liquid refreshment.
W i t h the usual efficiency of the
club, the coach failed to arrive
and so 1 hour after Toplis had left
by car, the other weary members
had to make their own way home.
Mdlard, Care, Price, Vincent, Roche,
IC 1st XI vs. St. Peters College
Captain-elect Price showed he possesses one of the
necessary qualities by getting us lost. This meant nine of us
arrived an hour late. T h i s year's skipper, Toplis, and Slater
managed to arrive even later.
This left Price to toss-up and remarkably he actually won and elected
to bat. M o r t o n and M y l v a n g a n a m opened and appeared to be coping
with a very tricky wicket before Filield gave M o r t o n out L B W to a ball
missing leg stump by at least a foot. Fifield later admitted he was
considering an appointment at the opticians. Thus IC's numerous
supporters (two) were deprived of the sight of IC's classiest batsman in
action after he had scored only 18.
M y 1 v a n g a n a m f o l 1 o w e d
M o r t o n back to the pavilion
shortly afterwards when he was
well caught in the gully with his
score on 10. Everett was looking
good at this stage and was joined
by the lumbering hulk ol
Tomlinson to produce the ugliest
batting partnership since the
d e m i s e of D . A . H e a t h .
Fortunately, Tomlinson didn't
last l o n g after s c o r i n g a
marvellous one run. E^verett
continued to carve up the bowling
until the bowler held a good
return catch to dismiss him lor 22.
This allowed Slater and Maguire
to c o m e t o g e t h e r for a n
excruciatingly slow partnership.
It was so slow the 'old hands' in
the team couldn't help but
compare them with the legendary
J o h n England. Slater crawled to
an impressive 5 before being
bowled by a full toss. Maguire
now really came out of his shell
and produced some text book
edges to race to 15 when he was
run-out. This left Toplis to come
in lor his normal heave-ho. He
lasted a relatively long time (third
ball), but was then stumped for
nought despite a brave Hurry of
limbs in an attempt to regain his
ground. Filield was caught
behind alter he bad accumulated
a similar total. Crowe was now
resigned to hitting out and this led
to h i m being stumped with his
score on five. Once again our last
pair were called in to save the day.
O n c e again they failed to do so.
This time Price let us down by
skying a catch after failing to
score. Special mention should be
given to Acford lor his 3 n.o. The
sight of Brian running up the
pitch screaming 'three' brought
tears to the eyes of all those
sentimentalists in the team who
truly believed he would score-
more than one run in an innings
before this prolific bus-driver left
College. Anyway we finished on a
meagre 81.
IC's opening bowlers were
Crowe and Toplis. Toplis picked
up two early wickets but he had to
rely on stupendous diving catches
Irom Everett and M o r t o n . It is a
sad reflection on our cricket club
that the whole team relies so
heavily on these two as you will
note from the above that they had
already scored hall the runs. A v i d
followers of these reports will be
a w a r e that I C possess a
formidable (?) array of spin-
bowlers. Today we had Slater.
Filield and Price in action. As
usual they gave away numerous
runs to lose us the match. Fifield
retained some honour by taking a
wicket. The only other wicket to
fall during this period of spin-
bowling was again due to our
resident super-heroes. M o r t o n
ran after a ball at the speed of
sound, produced a throw to the
wicket-keeper that travelled at
the speed of light and within a
pieo-second Everett had the bails
oil to run out their most
.threatening batsman. When
staring defeat in the face, Toplis
brought himself back on and
intrduced the inconsistent Acl'ord
to the attack. These two bowled
very tidily and finished with
figures of 5 for 10 (but no jug) and
1 for 7 respectively. This earned
IC a draw as St. Peter's finished
on 63 lor 8.
Five of us then stayed on lor the
evening and had a great time, but
then who wouldn't with beer at
25p a pint? It is with regret that I
must report that Everett may
have looked good on the field but
he looks bloody awful when
throwing up in the streets of
Oxford. W e must thank Brian lor
staying sober and driving us back
& T o m for taking care of our less
than 100% lit wicket-keeper.
R O C K M I N T O N
P.S. Neil Price stayed in Oxford
that night. I don't know what
happened to him but it inspired
him to unknown heights t he-
following day in the Presidents'
X I game.
T e n n i s C l u b
On Sunday we played a ladies
doubles match against Southgale
County LTC, it was a 2nd round
match in the Under 21 Middlesex
Cup. The match was away, and we
had to travel by tube to the far end
of the Picadilly line. Lack of
confidence in the Captain's
navagational abilities soon
showed, we all refused to believe
that she knew where she was
going. However, after visiting a
golf course, we eventually arrived
at the tennis club.
In the first match Kathy and
Hazel played the second couple
and won 7-5, 6-1. They then had to
sit and watch Sara and Julia finish
a slightly longer match against the
first couple, in which Julia
amused the opposition by falling
about all over the court. Due to
nerves and some pathetic tennis
we allowed them to reach a 5-2
lead, we then played properly and
won the set on a tie- break. In the
second set we played better, and
we beat them 7-6, 6-3.
For the second matches the
tables were turned. Julia and Sara
beat the second couple easily, 6-
2, 6-1 .while Kathy and Hazel were
struggling against the first couple.
The game went to three sets,
mainly due to lack of concen-
tration by both players, but we
eventually won 3-6, 7-6, 8-6. The
credit for the final victory must go
to Hazel, as by the end of the third
set Kathy was definately feeling
the effects of the previous nights
toga party.
Altogether we won convin-
cingly, dropping only one set in
the whole match. As we won this
match we are now through to the
quarter final of the Middlesex
C u p .
Team:- Julia Towns and Sara
McGuinness; Kathy Snook and
Hazel McCulloch.

