Page 4
Volunteer Work At WUS (UK)
W U S (UK) requites volunteers to assist in the operation of our
Refugee Student Scholarship Programmes.
We operate a number of scholarship programmes for refugee
students from Chile, Uganda, Ethiopia and several other countries.
During the summer vacation we will be looking for a number of
volunteers to help with our various programmes. The work will involve
letter writing, compiling information and providing back-up assistance
to the secretariat. A working knowledge of Spanish would be an
advantage, but is not essential.
F-jr Further Information Contact: Field Unit, 20 Compton Terrace,
London, N1 2UN. Tel. 01-226 6747.
Sub-Wardens Wanted
Sub-Warden of Selkirk Hall
Applications are invited for the post of Sub-Warden of Selkirk Hall,
which will fall vacant later this year, due to the departure from College of
the present Sub-Warden, Hugh Barrett. The Hall is one of the Southside
Halls of Residence with, at present, 28 women and 44 men students.
Normally 'he post would be held by a full-time student of at least one
year's post-c,, aduate standing. However, exceptional applicants falling
outside this c a t e g o r y will be c o n s i d e r e d also. Rent-free
accommodation in the form of a small self-contained flat will be
provide.
The esse >
l duties are to assist the Warden in the running of the Hall,
which is orga; s d as a community. All residents who wish may attend
community meetings at which decisions affecting hall life are taken.
Further details may be obtained from the Warden or Sub-Warden.
Written cations, containing all information considered relevant,
should ic ;h the Warden, S H Perry, as soon as possible.
Sub-Wardenship Tizard Hall.
Applications are invited for the post of sub-warden in Tizard Hall,
effective from September, 1979. Preference will be given to post-
graduates or post-doctoral staff who intend remaining at Imperial
College for a period of at least two years.
The function of the sub-warden is to assist the warden in the running
of the hall and to take an active role in the promotion of social activities.
The successful applicant will receive free accommodation and an
honorarium.
Applications with details of relevant experience should be sent to Dr
MHR Hutchins, Tizard Hall before 30th June, 1979.
Linstead Hall Subwardenships
There will be vacancies in Linstead Hall for a Sub-Warden to
commence in October 1979, another to commence early in 1980, and a
further appointment in October 1980 with responsibilities in connection
with the new extension opening at that time.
Applications are invited now for Sub-Wardenship commencing in
October 1979. Closing date for applications is July 1st.
The duties of the Sub-Warden are to assist in the functioning of the
Hall as a community, by active co-operation with the student residents,
and under the general guidance of the Warden. The accommodation
(rent free) is suitable for a couple without children, or for a single
person. There is an honorarium of £260 pa (subject to review from
1.10.79).
Enquiries would be welcomed from members of academic or
research staff, or from postgraduates (particularly if they can forsee
spending more than one year in post). Transfer to take extra
responsibility in the extension (October 1980) will naturally be a
possibility, and a person of greater age and experience might be
particularly interested in that development.
Please apply to the Warden, M D Carabine, including a curriculum
vitae, or seek further information from him or from the present Sub-
Wardens.
TRAVEL STUDENTS
OF LONDON
Exhausted after my effort of a fortnight ago I decided to carry on
avoiding John Harris for another week and leave another article until
this week. Not that John is particularly terrifying but it was hand written
on unlined paper with crossings-out and insertions and so forth to the
extent that he drove me out of the FELIX office to get this article typed in
the Union Office, (he will be sorry) and it went on for ever! However,
judging by the contents of last week's issue (size, editorial and page 4
article) he is really pushed for copy so here goes for this week's ego-trip
(which is the only kind of trip I am going on this year).
Enough of the above rubbish, exciting things are happening at
London Student Travel, For a start we have a new advertising slogan,
which runs 'For a choiceof 500 make 117 the first' (117 Euston Rd,
geddit!). If you want to see the complete poster there are four copies
around IC, one at IF, and one at R C M so get looking.
Secondly we have signed a sole-suppliers contract with Transalpino
for European rail journeys. This benefits L S T in so much as we get
higher commissions, and benefits you, our customers, in so far as LST
stipulates that Transalpino must be competitive (against Eurotrain
mainly).
Thirdly, the Head Office (117 Euston rd) has started producing a
weekly news sheet outlining the journeys and prices LST has on offer
for distribution around Union C o m m o n Rooms in the London Colleges.
Moreover they are keen that someone at Imperial College should
produce a similar item for distribution at IC and environs and Chelsea
College, Q E C , E T C . (did you know that people come from
Hammersmith Polytechnic to use the IC office of LST?). Now, dare I
plead 3rd year student? (I have this kind of death-wish that pushes me
on to face the virtual inevitability that I will be a 3rd year next year) And
that I can't type, or use a Gestetner and where is Q E C anyway? What I'm
saying is that, if a news sheet is to be produced next year I would
appreciate some help. S o any keen body reading this who would like to
help, will you please go into the L S T Office and tell Cathy your name,
year and Department and I shall try not to forget all abgout you and
contact y o u early next year.
In the meantime, Malcolm Brain would like to see a flood of people
booking their holidays through L S T next week because he wants to
become a Director (so do I but don't tell anybody) so don't disappoint
him.
Christopher D Hunt.
Elk's Last Stand
Well folks, only one week of
t e r m left now - soon you can
all disappear into the depths
of Britain and earn thousands
of pounds working 24hr
shifts, 7 days a week i n
factories or walking the
streets of Earls Court saying
to r a n d o m passers-by who
look at you with lust i n their
eyes 'Hello Sailor - would you
like an 'orrible time?'.
Enough of these sordid ways of
earning a living. I've got a couple
of things to plug this week.
PARKING PERMITS
(of the temporary kind)
Well, after I'd got all the
applications in for temporary
parking permits I found that there
were more places than there were
applications for a J u l y permit.
That is, everybody who applied
gets a place, proving perhaps that
this scheme was a little futile - it
was College's idea, not mine.
Anyway, as there are spaces left
over I'm not sure whether it's
worth issuing permits or not just
for July. I'll discuss it with J o h n
Fuller, traffic warden at the
Exhibition R o a d entrance, and if
we decide to issue them then
I'll send them to individuals and
they should arrive sometime in
the last week of term.
PARTIES, COUNCILS,
CAMPING EQUIPMENT,SEX
AND VM
Here comes another plug for
the Exec. Party. Bring a bottle (to
drink after the end of the bar
extension). It's on Thursday 21st
June in the J C R a n d I've been
told it's going to turn into one
helluva orgy with naked bodies
writhing all over the floor a n d
spilling onto the walkway. O h
yes, bring your o w n fetish.
Joint C o u n c i l is takng place this
M o n d a y at 2 p m in the U n i o n
D i n i n g H a l l , observers welcome.
The chap who runs the stall
which occasionally appears in the
J C R and sells cheap camping
equipment says students are
welcome to call at his factory over
the Summer and actually buy
stuff there. H i s address is 48
Rawstone St., L o n d o n E C 1 . T e l :
837 2201/2, so just call there if
you want to get some cheap
camping equipment. If you're
lucky he might sell you some
cheap bondage equipment as
well.
Right, now that this article is
almost over I can frolic naked in
Beit Q u a d , giving everybody in
the F E L I X Office a turn-on and
go and sell my body in the
Sherfield Building. Pity there's
nobody there in the evening - I
might have lo give it away for
free.
Hope to see you in the last week
of term, in my shower if nowhere
else.
M i k e E l k i n
I C U H o n Sec.

