D a y B y D a y
A ROUND-UP OF LAST WEEK'S NEWS
Page 5
Wednesday 6th
DC-10 loses US air certificate
All British-registered DC-10 airliners were
grounded by the Civil Aviation Authority
shortly after the American air authorities took
the unprecedented step of withdrawing the
plane's certificate of airworthiness.
Both British Caledonian and Laker Airways
insist that there is nothing at all wrong with
their planes.
Troy wins 200th Derby
Troy won the Derby by seven lengths.
Willie Carson burst through the field to win at
a price of 6-1. Dickens Hill was second at 15-1
and France's 66-1 outsider Northern Baby
finished third.
Chinese annoyed over Taiwan anthem
After a Brazilian band played the Taiwan
national anthem by mistake to welcome a
touring Chinese volleyball team, officials in
Rio de Janeiro scrapped ceremonies for the
rest of t h e t o u r to a v o i d f u r t h e r
embarrassment. The Chinese team stormed
off the pitch when the band struck up the
wrong tune.
Thursday 7th
European Elections
2 in every 3 voters failed to send a kiss to
their Euro candidate. Those that did vote
found the polling stations empty except for
bored staff who were only too glad to have a
chat.
Jeremy Thorpe not to testify
The announcement that Jeremy Thorpe
will not be giving evidence in his defence,
though not totally unexpected, caused a stir
in the closing minutes of the 21st day of the
trial at the O l d Bailey.
Friday 8th
Letter bombs at Birmingham sorting office
Four letter bombs exploded in two sorting
offices in Birmingham injuring five postal
workers. Several more bombs were found
and this has resulted in the sorting of mail in
the Birmingham area being brought to a
standstill. Several complaints about postal
delays have been voiced by many students at
Imperial.
Half of Day by Day is written in the
Midlands and is sent by post via Birmingham
during certain weeks of the year but this week
it has had to be written entirely in London.
Water found on Mars
Large areas of water have been discovered
on Mars increasing the likelihood that life in
bacterial form exists on the planet or beneath
its surface.
Two wet regions have been located by a
w a t e r - d e t e c t i o n d e v i c e o n a V i k i n g
spacecraft orbiting the planet and by an
earth-based telescope using a spectrograph.
The lakes are likely to be underground. If
life exists on Mars it would have to be under
the earth protected from the sun's deadly
radiation wich penetrates the thin Martian air.
Saturday 9th
England beat Australia in Prudential World
Cup
A settled and united England side beat
Australia by six wickets. After their 60 overs
Australia had scored 159 for the loss of 9
wickets. After a shaky start England scored
the necessary runs in 47.1 overs.
Sweden 0 England 0
A brilliant solo run by England's captain,
Emlyn Hughes, ended with his shot hitting
the bar. Apart from a few other half-hearted
attempts at scoring, the match looked a
certain no-score draw.
Russians win milk race
Urei Kachinine won the 22nd Milk race
which finished at Blackpool today.
Ray Lewis won the final stage for Britain
but after sustaining a five minute penalty he
had to be content with an overall position of
14th. Britain came 6th in the team listings.
Sunday 10th
European Election Results
A sweeping victory in the European
elections has established the Conservatives
as the largest national party group. The
Tories will occupy 60 of the 81 British seats in
the 410 members assembly. Labour won 17
seats and a single seat went to the Scottish
Nationalists.
Records broken to-day
Michael Cairney established a domino-
toppling record, touching off with a finger-
flick a chain reaction which toppled 169,713
pieces at the weekend. The dominoes fell for
nearly 45 minutes in the civic centre at
Poughkeepsie, New York.
Michael designed an intricate blueprint for
the challenge - dominoe outlines of the
British and American flags, a huge peacock,
bridges and zigzags. He had hoped to set up
200,000 dominoes, but there were numerous
setbacks. A gust as a door was opened
knocked over several thousands.
Sounds like a great rag stunt for the J C R
but where do you get 170,000 dominoes?
Richard Rodrigues completed 140 hours of
riding on Blackpool's Big Dipper to increase
his own endurance record by 12 hours.
Sussex University make the Nationals again
Press coverage of Sussex University
Student Union activites has reached new
heights this month. Today a 300 strong
student rent protest was given wide coverage
in the national press. They played football on
the V i c e C h a n c e l l o r ' s l a w n , s a n g
revolutionary songs and set up a stand
publicising the plight of the homeless.
Crossroads script to be written by computer?
In a scathing attack on Crossroads and
similar ITV serials the Daily Telegraph
c o m m e n t s t h a t c o m p u t e r s c a n be
programmed to create novels and TV scripts,
but their plots are still too crude and
predictable even for a run-of-the-mill
television series, but it suggests TV programs
that could improve with some artificial
intelligence.
Monday 11th
Bingo jackpots are lost
A pensioner won the two main jackpots at a
Bingo hall in Bristol. His extraordinary luck
ran out when a thief stole the money from his
flat.
More boat people for Britain
The 293 Vietnamese refugees aboard the
British freighter Roachbank are to be allowed
into Britain if Taiwan refuses to take them.
The Roachbank refugees are in additon to
1,003 Vietnamese rescued by her sister ship,
Sibonga, who are being flown in from Hong
Kong on Tuesday.
Tuesday 12th
John Wayne dies
John Wayne fought a 15 year battle against
cancer. Today in a Los Angeles clinic he;sank
slowly into a coma. Doctors and nurses were
amazed at his cool defiance of death. He
shrugged off doctors' offers of pain-killing
drugs so that he could talk to his children.
The Budget
Next Monday V A T goes up to a standard
rate of 15%. Income tax has been drastically
cut... Basic rate down from 33% to 30%...Top
rate down from 83% to 60%.
A rise in the minimum lending rate to 14%
will mean that loans will cost more.
Prescription charges are increased to 45p.
Spending on education will be cut by £55
million which will affect university building
programmes.
First non-powered flight across Channel
Bryan Allen pedalled his 96ft wingspan
Gossamer Albatross across the English
Channel to win a £100,000 prize offered as a
challenge by British industrialist Henry
Kremer. It took Bryan less than three hours to
make the first non-powered flight to France.
Matchless Great Train Robbery
The publishers of a book about the Great
Train Robbery wanted to distribute matches
plugging the paperback edition on inter-city
buffet cars.
Railwaymen, remembering that driver Jack
Mills died after a long illness following his
coshing during the £2,500,000 raid in 1963
bitterly opposed the plan.

