Page 8
Greenpeace is holding a sponsored walk to raise badly
needed funds for o u r expeditions to save the whales. We send
our boat, the Rainbow W a r r i o r to confront the Icelandic
whalers b y positioning inflatable dinghies between the whales
a n d the hunter's harpoons.
Other Greenpeace vessels have interfered with Russian
whalers i n the Pacific i n s i m i l a r efforts to protect these gentle
giants of the seas. T h e 'Rainbow W a r r i o r 9
is also despatched to
stop seal culls a n d to interfere with the d u m p i n g o f nuclear
waste i n the oceans.
THE WALK
The walk starts at 10.30am, on Saturday the 7th July from the East
Heath car park off East Heath Road on Hampstead Heath. For
participants driving there, the car park will be available for use free of
charge. The route will go round the Heath, down to Primrose Hill and
Regent's Park, along Baker St to Marble Arch round the Serpentine,
past Buckingham Palace, through Victoria and finally over Lambeth
Bridge toJubilee Park on the South Bank - a total distance often miles.
The walk should last about five hours.
Try to complete the whole course. If you want to walk further, you
can complete additional circuits of Hyde Park - a two mile lap.
Alternatively, if you want to walk a shorter, traffic - free course, then
you can start in Hyde Park and just walk laps of the Serpentine, more
suitable perhaps for parents with young children. The starting point for
this walk will be next to the car park on the North side of the Serpentine
Bridge and will be open from 11 am until 5pm. You may ofcourse finish
either in Hyde Park or go through to Jubilee Park.
A detailed map of the course will be given to all walkers on the day
from either of the two starting points, together with your walking card.
This will be stamped with the mileage completed at the various
designated checkpoints along the route.
SPONSORSHIP
Get a form from the F"ELIX Ofiice.Please fill in clearly and return the
detachable slip as soon as possible. We only want to know how many
walkers to expect so please do not stop obtaining more sponsors after
posting the slip. Additional forms are available on request or you can
photocopy the original.
Walkers will also be asked to collect the money pledged from their
sponsors after the walk and remit the funds as soon as possible. Please
send the money either by cheque or postal order made payable to
Greenpeace L t d . K e e p your own sponsor forms, but please bring them
with you to the walk so that we can register the total amout pledged per
mile walked.
Remember, the purpose of the walk is to raise money, so please
obtain as many sponsors as possible. A small award will be given to the
individual walker raising the most funds and sponsors. T o the school
with the largest number of participants a Greenpeace crew member
will give a free film show of whale campaigns and present an award.
SUGGESTIONS FOR WALKERS
- W e a r sensible clothes and walking shoes, especially if it is raining.
The walk will take place whatever the weather conditions.
- If you have one, wear a 'Save the Whale' or Greenpeace Tee shirt
to promote the cause a n d the organisation.
- Please do not bring any placards or banners. These are banned in
the parks and in any case this is a walk not a demonstration.
- This is not a race - safety is as important to us as to you. Stick to the
route, keep to the pavements, use the subways where indicated and take
guidance from the Greenpeace officials. Please observe the traffic lights
at the road crossings and avoid jamming u p traffic.
- Bring some food and refreshments with you. If you want to buy
refreshments some stalls will be open in the parks.
- Some First A i d points and public conveniences will be open on the
route.
- If you are coming by car you may prefer to go first to Waterloo and
leave your car in one of the numerous car parks around and under the
National Theatre. Y o u can then take a Northern Line tube direct to
Hampstead (40p).
- Please drop no litter. There will be plenty of rubbish bins along the
way.
- W e want to gain support for our campaign, so please be courteous
to local residents, shopkeepers and fellow pedestrians, drivers and park
users.
Y O U C A N HELP G R E E N P E A C E
to save the whales from unnecessary slaughter by participating in
their sponsored walk on Saturday 7th July.
Funds are urgently needed to pay for our boat, the 'Rainbow
Warrior,' to directly confront the Icelandic Whaling Fleet to save
the last of the giant Fin Whales from explosive harpoons.
All profits from this walk will go to finance this and similar
campaigns to interfere with whale and seal hunting. Although the
crew is volunteer, the cost of properly equipping the 'Rainbow
Warrior' for these campaigns is very high.
Become an active part of the Greenpeace campaign to save the
whales from extinction. Come out and walk with us and ask
your friends, relatives, colleagues etc. to sponsor you.
Qrafbeta Sstei J§£ part 17AN EM02&Y SoWr pcfVcTMNG* K\£*e fkffcVlAToZ'S* 3>R.t\ie
UM\T HAS •STftUJEb I T . t n ' S PoSVT\0N rS HofteLEfcS.
A WdfcRuS) kfspaCE" coNsourS Hvs C O M -
rR£Auy,t>RAvcE">Youto f i a * : THe fAasr,
N N C O N M E M E U T M O M 0 J T S To HftvltT., ~
To Aa2fo£ty\ A sefxecuiK\G> D
A
T
A
-

