Page 9
Welfare
Making ends meet this summer
If you can't get work during the coming vacation you should be able to
persuade the state to cough up a few bob to keep you going.
The two possible sources of cash are:-
Supplementary Benefit and Unemployment Benefit.
Supplementary Benefit
Entitlement Anyone who is not in full time remunerative employment
and is available for work can claim.
How much? If you are living at home with your parents you should be
able to get £13.90 per week. If you are living somewhere else and paying
rent you should get £12.45 and most of your rent.
Unemployment Benefit
Entitlement As for Supplementary Benefit except that you have to have
paid National Insurance Contributions on earnings over a particular
sum in the relevant tax year.
To claim this Summer you need to have been paid unemployment
benefit during the Easter vacation or to have earned over £375 between
April 1977 and April 1978. You would then be entitled to £7.35per week.
If you earned over £750 you could get £14.70 or more depending on
how much you earned.
If you earned this sort of money in a different tax year, you can check
with the Welfare Centre to see whether you would be entitled to
anything. The amount that you get in Unemployment Benefit is
deducted from your Supplementary Benefit entitlement. When you
claim Supplementary Benefit you automatically claim Unemployment
Benefit.
HOW TO CLAIM
The places that you have to go to claim are
1. The J o b Centre
2. Department of Employment office
3. Department of Health and Social Security Office,
l a n d 2 are sometimes the same office.
To claim supplementary benefit ring 3. and make an appointment for
an interview and then go to 1, 2, and 3, in that order.
To claim Unemployment benefit y o u g o t o 1 and 2 but it is worth going
to 3 as well so at least you get Supplementary Benefit if they refuse
to give you Unemployment Benefit.
If you are not happy with themoneythat they give you y o u c a n , within
21 days, write to them and tell them that you want to appeal.
OVERSEAS STUDENTS
If you are thinking of working during the vacation and have a stamp in
your passport which imposes restrictions on your right to work, it is
important to remember that if you don't get permission to work and the
Home Office find out about it they might well refuse to renew your visa
or else might deport you. If you have a stamp which says that you can't
MARANATHA
Where your treasure is, there will your heart also be.
'The ground o f a certain rich m a n produced a good crop. H e thought ,
to himself, 'What shall I do? I have no place to store my crops. ' T h e n he
said. 'This is what I will do. I will tear down my barns and build bigger
ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods. A n d I will say to
myself. ' Y o u have plenty of good things laid up for mahy years. Take
life easy, eat, drink and be merry.'
'But G o d said to him, ' Y o u fool! This very night your life will be
demanded from you. T h e n youwon'tget what you have prepared for
yourself?'
'This is how it will be with anyone who stores things up for himself
but is not rich toward G o d . '
T h e n Jesus said to his disciples: 'Therefore I tell you, do not worry
about your life, what you will eat, or about your body, what you will
wear. Life is more than food, and the body more than clothes. Consider
the ravens: They do not sow or reap, they have no storeroom or barn, yet
G o d feeds them. A n d how m u c h more valuable you are than birds!
W h o of you by worrying can add a single hour to his life? Since you
cannot do this very little thing, why do you worry about the rest?
'Consider how the lillies grow. They do not labour or spin. Yet I tell
you, not even Solomon in all his splendour was dressed like one of these.
If that is how G o d clothes the grass ofthe field, which is here today and
tomorrow is thrown into the fire, how much more will he clothe you, O
you of little faith! A n d do not set your heart on what you will eat or
drink; do not worry about it. For the Pagan world runs after all such
things, and your Father knows that you need them. But seek his
kingdom, and these things will be given to you as well.'
work without permission it is possible to apply for permission and if you
intend to do a job which is in some way connected with your studies
then it is easier to get permission. If the stamp just says that you can't
work it is much more difficult. If you want more information on this you
can contact the Welfare Centre on the third floor of the Union Building.
Overseas students are generally not entitled to supplemenary Benefit
etc and again you can jeopardise your stay in this country by trying to
claim it.
Housing Co-op / short life User group
As arranged at the last meeting, there will be another meeting now
that you have time to think about the idea and exams are out of the way.
The meeting will be on Thursday 21st J u n e at 12.45pm in the S C R in the
Union Building. The idea of the meeting is to get something positive
organised for the vacation and or for next term. Anyone is welcome to
come.
Luggage Store
This will be in the Union building and you can leave stuff in it from the
19th onwards. Contact the Welfare Centre (int 2898) for further details.
ACCOMMODATION FOR NEXT YEAR
You can come and see what we have got at present or put your name
down so that we can pass on any information that comes in during the
vacation.
ffMAT'S A PAT LOT Of doob. -THE OMUf,
i P{32SoN | KNOW VOHo'S f A U - , tA£VCJ
coou> ser Tew O K meM-
T H 6 V A O K T Y ' P Y T H O N T U M E
'•SobTieMUX CRo&H TWetC P U E E T
WvTrt A HUfciECoTbOT FboT *?
pH£K£,THEe£". SO" t>OV0M A.Nh H A U E K
. N I C E CUP Of TEA , UiH\l£ t S A M E -me
U M \ M K K 4 E Pb£. Y o u . - - .
5
>
—r~ • J r lijl
P O N T M I S S I U E F I N A L P A R T O F D T . T M E X T weevc I N F E U X

