COMMENT
FELIX Friday 08 june 2012 11
COMMENT
FELIX
L
ike an excitable kid on
Christmas morning, A-
level results day saw me
up before dawn, frantical-
ly refreshing the beloved
UCAS track page to see whether or
not I’d cut the mustard. Unfortunately,
I had to be up and at work early that
morning, so couldn’t make it in to
school to find out my exact results or
jump into one of those coveted Guard-
ian photographs (though I’m sure I lack
the breasts and extra X chromosome to
meet their criteria, anyway).
Whatever the specifics were, I’d got-
ten in. That was enough to keep me
bouncing through work all day until I
went to a pre-results party dinner at a
friend’s house. Most of the room were
thrilled with the outcome of the day,
and heavily engrossed in wine and con-
versation about the mystery that was
freshers’ week. Naturally, any ques-
tions fired at me were along the lines of
“isn’t London really expensive?” Sure,
I said, but my naïve eighteen year old
self hadn’t quite clocked just how much
so.
It was then I got thinking about an
old family friend called Paul. Paul was
a bit of a computer whizz, to say the
least, and back in the eighties he man-
aged to secure himself a place study-
ing Computer Science at Fitzwilliam,
Cambridge. This was down to pure aca-
demic merit: Paul was the first from a
small town to make it out and do some-
thing special, but was also unfortunate
enough to lack the financial support to
The importance of funded scholarships
properly fund his education. He basi-
cally spent his university days working
a full time job in tandem, dedicating
countless hours that could have been
better spent on his course playing piano
at an over-priced restaurant, and ended
up narrowly missing out on a first.
Thankfully things have come a long
way, with all of the elite universities
now offering some form of support for
brilliant minds that happen to be born
into less privileged financial circum-
stances. I am currently the lucky recipi-
ent of awards from the college and a
large bank, both of which are subject to
satisfactory academic performance, and
both of which make studying in Lon-
don possible.
These awards have helped me to
pay for a multitude of things: the
over-priced halls of residence where I
made most of my friends, the slightly
less over-priced private accommoda-
tion when I moved out, enough food to
keep me healthy and well fed, and the
occasional beer or two. Without these
scholarships, accepting an offer from
Imperial would have been unrealistic.
I still work a part time job, but thanks
to the scholarships I am able to dedi-
cate most of the time to my studies, and
hopefully because of this I won’t be in
the horrible situation of missing out on
a grade because I had to spend all of
my time making money. Imperial has
one of the highest intakes of privately-
educated students in the country: in
addition to helping with financing, the
scholarships have also helped me to
blend in socially, providing I avoid the
likes of Amikahikibargovida (although
they play terrible music anyway).
I’m sure that I’m not alone: several
of my friends are in the same position,
I’m sure there are plenty of other peo-
ple that I haven’t met or who haven’t
mentioned it. I’m sure we’d all agree
that scholarships are an important thing
with endless benefits to the recipients,
and that we’d want incoming students
to have similar, or better, experiences
like those we’ve been lucky to have.
For these reasons, I am asking that
anyone on a scholarship, or anyone who
understands their importance, to donate
to The Skeleton Fund. Every penny will
go the Rector’s Scholarship Fund, and
will directly help undergraduates and
postgraduates to afford university. Do-
nating a small amount of money won’t
break your bank, but will demonstrate
to the college just how important such
awards are, and ultimately the accumu-
lated money will create a fantastic op-
portunity for worthy recipients in the
future.
Disclaimer: the writer of this article
works for Felix, but is not associated
with the Skeleton Fund and wished to
remain anonymous.
I still work a part
time job, but
thanks to the
scholarships I am
able to dedicate
most of my time
to my studies
“
I still w
I still w
time jo
time jo
”
time
time
es
es
Anonymous
Disappointingly, they transfer the money into your account, and don’t just give
it to you in a massive pile. Think of all the rap videos you could make...
Helping to raise a latte for equality
F
irst off, I’m not a natural cof-
fee drinker. Fair enough, un-
less your mother had a very
peculiar physiology while
breast-feeding, none of us
are natural coffee drinkers. My point
is, if given a choice, I would rather pick
a pot of peppermint tea than choose a
cafetiere of cappuccino. This puts me in
a very adversarial relationship with the
various coffee-shop chains on the high
street. First among equals in my deri-
sion of them is Starbucks.
Everything about it irritates me. First
off, there’s the price. For me, coffee
should be something cheap and con-
venient. I shouldn’t need to take out
a bank loan of such magnitude that it
would be better spent on Greece than
a cup of coffee. Next, there’s the siz-
ing scale; ‘tall’, ‘grande’ and ‘venti’.
In what universe is ‘tall’ the smallest
possible measurement? Furthermore,
‘tall’is a misnomer – ‘squat’would be a
more accurate for that size. At the other
end of the bizarrely gradated spectrum,
the largest cup size, something in Amer-
ica called ‘trenta’, holds more coffee
than a bottle of wine. With caffeine and
sugar in those quantities, it’s even odds
whether a heart attack or diabetes will
kill you first.
I will allow for the endless variations
of coffee. As I know from my tea-drink-
ing habits, there is a certain satisfaction
that comes with having a certain blend
for every possible situation. What I can-
not abide, however, is how they ask for
your name to inscribe upon your ridicu-
lously over-sized coffee cup. I’m just
buying coffee, Starbucks, let’s not make
this personal. I’m all for service with a
smile but that is taking it too far. Asking
for a name is just one step away from
getting your entire life history and mov-
ing in together with the barista. There
is an added rub if, like me, you have a
name that needs spelling out every time.
However, in spite of all of this, re-
cently I have had cause to change my
tune. I still dislike Starbucks but I have
come to support them. Earlier this year,
back in March, Starbucks publically
came out in support of a gay marriage
law in Washington state, USA. Swell,
but what goes on behind closed doors
six thousand miles away, and what a
coffee-shop thinks about it, is not really
any of my concern.
America is a funny country. People
there are really interested in things like
marriage. Concerned by Starbuck’s
stance on a topic that will surely be the
end of civilisation as we know it (or
maybe happiness for a few fabulous
people), the National Organisation for
Marriage called for a worldwide boy-
cott of Starbucks. They want to show
the coffee chain that the patronage of
tens of thousands right(-wing) minded
customers is worth more to them than a
stance they disapprove of.
If this played out on the playground,
NOM would be saying something like,
“You like gay marriage? That’s so gay!
I don’t like you. I’m not going to talk to
you until you change your mind.” be-
fore pushing Starbucks over and stomp-
ing off.
That sounds childish. Probably be-
cause it is. The internet, being the
liberal, hedonistic kingdom that it is,
promptly launched an informal coun-
ter-boycott. SumOfUs set up an online
thank you card to Starbucks. To go back
to the playground allegory, they are the
kid who goes over and helps Starbucks
back up.
This is where I got interested. I am a
firm believer in that the enemy of my
enemy is my friend. Starbucks is sup-
porting equality, or something like it.
Some people don’t like that, and would
rather I drink coffee elsewhere. I may
not like Starbucks but I like bigots even
less. I can derive a smug sense of satis-
faction if, by drinking a tall and skinny
Frappuccino, I annoy a self-righteous
homophobe somewhere in the world.
So raise a latte for equality!
Rhys Davies

