MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 08 June 2012
14
music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Ross Gray Mark England
Alex Ramadan
Simon Hunter
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Kindness
World,You Need
A Change of Mind
Polydor
2012
Some of you may remember 2009. Those who
don’t may want to put their thinking caps on for a
moment (and maybe lay off the bath salts for few
face-chewing minutes). 2009 was the earth-shat-
tering year in which the painfully mediocre band
Ash decided the album was dead. They went on
to prove that the album had kicked the bass and
gone to the holy record player in the sky by record-
ing a series of singles that, wait for it, they ended
up releasing as a compilation that looked, to the
untrained eye, suspiciously like an album. I recount
to you this tale of hubris and face-plantingly abject
failure because I want to provide a good contrast
between the dumbest mutha-whats in modern mu-
sic, and Adam Bainbridge (Kindness), who feels like
the smartest mutha-fo in modern music.
This album, with touches of Arthur Russell and
Prince, has for the first time in my life helped me
understand pop music. I keep trying to think of
smart, esoteric genres that will describe Kindness
but I keep coming back to the same thought: “It’s
pop throwback, it’s nostalgic, it’s disco, it’s awe-
some; to hell with you all!” I spent my childhood
scratching my head in utter confusion while watch-
ing Top of the Pops 2, but now I’m considering mak-
ing “Music Was Better During The Cold War” my
official slogan...
The album has its weaknesses, the most obvi-
ous is that at times it doesn’t feel entirely cohesive
and as one, but its high points are dizzyingly high.
‘Cyan’, a song that’s been around on the interwebz
for some time, is as close to achieving pop tran-
scendance as my limited pop knowledge will allow
me to claim. It’s got an irresistible beat, an impec-
cable intro, and little drops of, I’m guessing, xylo-
phone which make it instantly addictive. House is
another treat which sounds a bit like what James
Blake would if he stopped wingeing for second.
My favourite though is ‘Gee Up’, which is 1:52 of
unadulterated funky bass. (It also has the wittiest
music video I’ve seen in a long, long time).
Kindness has spoken wistfully of the effort that
used to go into buying and listening to albums. Once
you’d made your purchase you wouldn’t just casually
click shuffle and listen to something else. You’d in-
vested in the album and “the money that you spent
and the scarcity of music prior to the internet and
streaming meant that you would make the effort to
listen and listen and listen”, he told the Telegraph.
It’s 2012, and I made next to no investment in lis-
tening to World, You Need A Change Of Mind, but boy
have I listened, and listened, and listened.
If you thought you’d seen the end of this column, and
are peeved that it’s back, tweet @kadhimshubber
and tell me to “Go the hell back where you came
from!” Alternatively, tweet @feliximperial threatening
to call The Daily Telegraph...
What’s been the high point so far?
Seeing the reactions to the first release really;
there were so many positive comments and
support coming from everywhere. It was re-
ally great to see a lot of artists that I look up to
showing us love. I even enjoyed the negative
ones, just great to see what people thought of
our first offering.
Yeah, as long as it’s thoughtful criticism,
positive or negative is always good.
Definitely, my favourite was “did they use any
other instruments other than a bag of rusty
forks being thrown down a flight of stairs?”
Ouch! To be fair, you’ve got to love a cre-
ative insult...
Beats “your mum” jokes anytime…
So, just a few questions left. Who would you
love to work with, who you’re not working
with already?
We’ve got some fantastic new artists that we’re
working with at the moment, they’re featuring
on the next release, really happy with the work
they’ve come up with. In the future I’d just like
to keep working with new talent until finally
gaining enough notoriety to record a Christmas
single with Gucci Mane and Morrissey.
Good call. When can we expect the next re-
lease?
We’re just putting the finishing touches on it at
the moment, so hopefully as some point over
the summer.
Look forward to it. Just before you go, ob-
viously have to ask you the most important
question... What’s your favourite dinosaur?
The little ratty one with the weird neck skin
that spat in the fat bloke’s eyes on Jurassic
Park, I liked his style…
Best answer to that question ever... Cheers
Josh, catch you next week at Diggidy Dawg.
Cheers mate, looking forward to it!
able music has become, people just fire out
throwaway music with no thought or mean-
ing behind it. We’re looking to just put out
(what we deem to be) quality records which
explore some new territories and bring back a
bit of feeling to music, regardless of whether
it’s on trend or not. Artist wise, there’s a lot
of absolutely brilliant musicians and producers
out there that share our idea and those people
should be aware that we’re coming for them.
Are you just talking about the flood of mu-
sic you find on the Internet, or do you also
mean the music you hear in clubs (or repu-
table establishments, in 1950s speak...)?
Don’t get me wrong, the internet has produced
a channel where there are endless opportuni-
ties to help promote new talent and it’s a bril-
liant thing. But I think that overall it’s led to
the traditional task of developing an act be-
coming less of a priority.
Same with club nights, a lot of club promoters
don’t understand the work that has to go into
events and that there has to be a sense of iden-
tity that goes with it.
Ah I get you, there’s less longevity, or pa-
tience you mean?
Exactly.
Give us a brief idea of what starting your
own label is like. In terms of finding the
artists, then putting your name out there; I
imagine it’s pretty hard graft.
I was quite lucky in the aspect that I had a
group of artists that I’d been working with
on various projects for a number of years. So
after getting them on board, we started going
through possible tracks for the first release,
which took a really long time, working to-
gether and making alterations to tracks and
discussing the best way for them to go out. A
couple of the artists I met along the way, at this
point. In terms of coming up with the branding
and visuals for the label, again I’m very lucky
to have a lot of very gifted friends who helped
me out to no end with that. I see it as a bit of
a community project really, there’s so many
people involved!
H
ey Josh, how are you doing?
Very well thanks mate, how
about you?
Not bad, just listening to some Patchwork
Pirates so things could be worse.
Nice, I’m Fleetwood Mac’ing it.
Haha. Let’s start with the easy stuff, what
does XVI stand for? I keep saying X-V-I in
my head.
It is indeed XVI, it stands for Ten Against One.
Roman numerals…
I clearly should have taken more Latin
classes... How would you describe XVI to
someone who’d never heard of it before?
The sound that we are pushing is a deep,
spaced out, soulful one... Ranging from more
avant garde downtempo beats, right up to more
upbeat house and garage crossovers.
You’ve got a night up in Chester, called Lion
Roar, and you’ve got your own label. You’re
pretty busy for a 22-year-old...
Haha… Well idle time is the devil’s plaything
after all. I think that in the music industry as
it stands today, you really have to roll up your
sleeves and get your hands dirty with all as-
pects of music: promoting parties, releasing
music, managing artists... It’s one of the only
ways to put across the true meaning of the mu-
sic ideals you’re pushing…
Was there a point at which you realised,
“Hey I need to be the person who’s finding
the music and putting it out to people?” Or
have you always kind of had that approach
to music?
Hmm I think I’ve always been pretty selec-
tive about the music I listened to, when I first
started out I was promoting punk shows up
North, so I suppose when you’re in the posi-
tion of picking music for people to come and
dance to, you put yourself in that position to
a certain extent. After a while I found that so
many people I knew were making great music
which just wasn’t getting the exposure it de-
served, so I suppose making the leap to starting
a record label isn’t such a far cry from being a
promoter in some ways. It’s a nice feeling to
be able to show people new music that they
weren’t aware of before, but obviously vice
versa, I love having someone play me some
music from an artist I’ve never heard of and be
blown away by it.
Tell us more about the “music ideals you’re
pushing”. Is there something specific you’re
looking for in the artists you work with? Ei-
ther musically, or personally?
Basically, a lot of the electronic and “dance”
music industry is pretty horrific. Because of
the internet and how available and dispos-
XVI rolling deep
XVI Records take over Metric
Kadhim Shubber chats with Josh Byrne, head of XVI Records

