FELIX
Friday 08 june 2012
20
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
The Poet’s Column
Walking up from College, along West Carriage
Drive through Hyde Park, it’s easy to miss The
Serpentine Gallery’s latest pavilion. Con-
tained underground, it will quickly become
West London’s coolest summer hangout. But
what makes this installation particularly inter-
esting is the story behind it and the extraordi-
nary collaboration of artists that have designed
it.
This installation by Ai Weiwei and architects
Herzog & de Meuron is the twelfth in the se-
ries of summer Pavilions on the site outside
the Serpentine Gallery. Being underground,
this year’s Pavilion is more discrete than pre-
vious years, though this does not make it any
less impressive. Visitors are initially greeted
with a floating round surface covered in rain-
water, which perfectly reflects the changing
WIN TICKETS TO NOVA
FESTIVAL!
This week’s Arts page brings you, yet again, our
new competition – and this one is even bigger and
better than the last. The Nova Festival – music,
art, theatre and comedy all taking place in one
big field in Sussex – is offering us a pair of tick-
ets, valued at £100 each, for the winner of our
competition below. For all you festival fanatics
out there, this is the perfect chance to spend four
drunken days swimming in love, happiness and
just a little mud. Even if festivals aren’t exactly
your thing, it will give you something to do in the
long, hot summer (5 – 8 of July to be precise) if
you were planning to spend it doing not much of
anything...
Email us your BEST FESTIVAL STORY – in 20
words max. – to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk to be
in with a chance of winning a PAIR OF TICKETS!
Sleep is supposed to be
By souls of sanity
The shutting of the eye.
Sleep is the station grand
Down which, on either hand
The hosts of witness stand!
Morn is supposed to be
By people of degree
The breaking of the Day.
Morning has not occurred!
That shall Aurora be --
East of Eternity --
One with the banner gay --
One in the red array --
That is the break of Day!
Our Felix poets are on holiday this week (or pos-
sibly on exam time) so instead we bring you some
Emily Dickinson on the wonder of sleep... for all-
nighters!
Sleep is supposed to be
by Emily Dickinson
Weiwei to the Serpentine
The perfect summer hangout spot is ten minutes from Imperial
skies above – a parallel to (or blatant copy of
– you can be the judge) Anish Kapoor’s mirror
sculptures that featured through Kensington
Gardens only two years ago. This platform,
however, has one up on Kapoor’s mirrors as
the water can be drained and the area can be
transformed into a dance floor for the Serpen-
tine Gallery’s Park Nights events. Against the
backdrop of the traditional Serpentine Gal-
lery building, it really is striking.
You can then explore underneath this sur-
face, where you enter into an underground den,
cladded with cork. Weiwei and the architects
designed the pavilion from an archaeological
approach, digging into the ground and find-
ing the remnants of pavilions from the past 12
years. Using these previous foundations and
floor plans as their inspiration for the layout,
the area is formed by an abstract layering of
shapes and levels. Like any good piece of art,
it stands alone as an beautiful piece; made only
more interesting when you realise the story and
journey behind it; and with the wettest April in
100 years, it’s nothing short of a miracle that
this structure was finished in time.
The pavilion is the creative vision of Ai
Weiwei, a Chinese political activist artist who
specialises in sculpture and installations, using
mass production as his inspiration for his lat-
Laura Johnston
“The pavilion is the crea-
tive vision of Ai Weiwei...
Chinese activist artist”
est pieces. His most significant recent work
was Sunflower Seeds: set in the Tate Mod-
ern’s Turbine Room, the 100 million porcelain
pieces were each painstakingly hand painted.
Working alongside Weiwei is the award win-
ning Swiss architecture company Herzog & de
Meuron. Founded by two classmates they are
most famously known in Britain for their con-
version of the Bankside Power Station in to the
Tate Modern in 2000, and are now working
on the extension, ‘Tate 2’. Though this is their
first collaboration in the UK, Weiwei and the
architects are not strangers, having worked to-
gether on several projects, including the iconic
‘Bird’s Nest’ stadium of the Beijing Olympics
– making this installation a nice link from the
2008 Olympics to this summer’s event in Lon-
don.
Regardless of the artistic journey behind the
pavilion, the underground den can be appreci-
ated by everyone at face value as an area to
hang out in, meet friends and enjoy Hyde Park
during the soggy British summer. And while
the rest of London will be painfully busy, let’s
keep this as our little secret: a cultural hide out
in the heart of our city.
The Serpentine Summer Pavillion is open
until the 14 October 2012.
I’m like Jamiroquai, going deeper underground Escape the rain. Humanity’s eternal struggle

