film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
Men in Prometheus
John Park
Director Rupert Sanders
Screenwriters Etan Cohen, Lowell
Cunningham
Cast Will Smith, Tommy Lee Jones,
Josh Brolin, Emma Thompson
Men in Black III
Let’s pretend the less than adequate
direct sequel to Men in Black never
happened. With that logic, we can say
it took almost 15 years for this new
entry to hit the screens after the Will
Smith-Tommy Lee Jones alien-fighting
duo saved the world all the way back
in 1997. So who remembers what this
franchise is really about? As the title
gives it away, Smith and Jones are men
in black suits, a part of a top-secret gov-
ernment organisation that hunts down
harmful extraterrestrial life forms.
They have laser guns, fast cars, and all
sorts of gadgets that accompany them
on their missions. It’s also been far too
long since we’ve seen Smith on the big
screen. He’s been keeping himself busy
with film-producing work, but time ac-
tually spent on screen has been absolute
zero for past four years or so.
And what a welcome back to form
this turns out to be. Which is odd, since
we see so little of the series-defining
and utterly necessary Jones who even
in his brief outing delivers the laughs
with his comically wise words and still,
emotionless face, a quality Smith’s
Agent J has always had trouble adjust-
ing to. The reason for Jones’ shortage is
because of an evil alien called Boris the
Animal (Jermaine Clement) who es-
capes from a maximum-security prison
on the Moon. Out to exact revenge on
Agent K (Jones) who arrested him in
the first place, Boris decides to rewrite
history, jump into the past, and perma-
nently wipe K out. It takes a while for
J to understand and accept that within
a single day no-one knows or remem-
bers who K is. To fix this complex situ-
ation he himself travels back into 1969
to make sure K stays alive to save the
world once more.
The trouble with having time travel in
films is that it can seriously get out of
hand. But apart from a lazy mishap in
the film’s climax, the adventurous idea
stays well on track and provides a se-
cure and fun base for the film to build
itself around. So J travels to the 60s,
when Americans were less than kind
to people of his race. He drives a fancy
car, wears his black suit, and suddenly
the police come around thinking that
he stole these. Various culture shocks
aside, J is even more stunned to meet
the young K, played by Josh Brolin.
Brolin is the reason why this film
works so well. Men in Black was nev-
er only about the disgusting looking
Roger Moore in Moonraker... oh
John Park
Director Ridley Scott
Screenwriters Jon Spaihts, Damon
Lindelof
Cast Noomi Rapace, Logan
Marshall-Green, Charlize Theron,
Michael Fassbender, Guy Pearce
Prometheus
aliens. It was mainly concerned with
tip-top banterous chemistry Smith and
Jones, a highly unlikely pairing, shared.
The cocky, mouthy Smith teamed with
the serious, quiet Jones always provided
the laughs. With Jones gone, the shoes
to fill must have been absolutely enor-
mous, and to perfectly master Jones’
mannerisms and have an equally dy-
namic spark with Smith is Brolin. It
helps that Brolin and Jones look rather
similar. But what Brolin achieves goes
so far beyond superficial looks. He nails
the accent, the facial expressions, and
with them creates a fascinating younger
version of K.
With Flight of the Conchords’ Clem-
ent in an almost unrecognisable form
as the grumpy Boris, the villain looks
and sounds deadly enough to warrant
our attention. His size, brute force and
dialogue seem deliberately absurd, as
is the CGI used to portray every sin-
gle aspect of his body with repulsive
alien-like features. With this type of
simple, straightforward and completely
comprehensible villain, the threats he
makes are more than convincing, and
as we see a glimpse of what he is plan-
ning for Earth in which giant squid-like
alien vessels take over everything, it’s
easy to see this guy doesn’t make emp-
ty threats he cannot deliver.
Despite the determination of our vil-
lain, the action remains relatively calm
throughout and there are no stand-out,
complex sequences of heavy gun-fire.
The futuristic rides and silver firearms
are all there, but the episodic, police
procedural type of pacing adds no cre-
ativity or originality to the duo’s chase
for Boris. The ambitious final action
sequence that combines the real-life ac-
count of America’s first rocket launch
into space as well as the fictitious fight
against aliens carried out by J and K is
well integrated and the aforementioned
huge misstep that conveniently but not
logically sums everything up is the only
aspect that threatens to ruin a perfectly
well set-up conclusion.
Surprisingly, this third installment
ends with heart, and an unexpectedly
touching revelation that gives an en-
riching background story to both J and
K in a short period of time that pulls
off the emotional punch without ever
going overboard or dragging out the
drama; again, a bold, unconventional
addition to a film franchise with a set
of rules that had already worked. With
just enough tweaks but leaving a lot of
the good material intact, Men in Black
III is certainly a sci-fi adventure to em-
bark on, something that shows there
is no slowing down The Fresh Prince
no matter after how many years of ab-
sence, and that with the right casting
choices, a sudden replacement is not
always a disaster. She’s playing with fire... again...
Prometheus is the name of a space-
ship carrying 17 crew members, out
to explore a new planet. The reason?
Curiosity. Nosy scientists just need to
find out who our makers are and solve
the mysteries surrounding our creation.
Where do we come from? Who we
are? These are just some are the ques-
tions Dr. Elizabeth Shaw (Rapace) must
have answered. After discovering a star
map made by seemingly unconnected
ancient cultures all over the world, she
and her expedition partner Charlie Hol-
loway (Marshall-Green) conclude that
this is an invitation for the humans to
venture out and find their ancestors – or
makers.
The year is 2093, and with secure fi-
nancial backing from a shadowy compa-
ny known as the Weyland Corporation,
Prometheus lands. Awakened from their
two-year hyper-sleep, the ship’s crew
are informed of their mission: to explore
and investigate this new terrain and
possibly make contact with any alien
life-forms, which they dub “Engineers.”
The icy cold Meredith Vickers (Theron)
is very clear on a couple of points: ev-
erything should be reported back to
her with no direct contact to be made
with anything the team may find. And
off they go, into a dark, damp, metallic
structure that no sane person would dare
enter. What do they find? Dead bodies,
presumably of one of their “Engineers.”
Gooey substances, haunting statues, vi-
cious snake-like creatures... it’s only a
matter of time until this chaotic expedi-
tion ends in sweat, tears and blood.
Let’s put one rumour to rest. Is this a
prequel to Ridley Scott’s Alien? Yes, it
sure is. But do you need to be familiar
with the Alien franchise to enjoy the
film? Absolutely not. Prometheus stands
proudly on its own, and never relies on
director Scott’s previous sci-fi outing for
any of the film’s concepts. Most obvi-
ously, Prometheus deals on a much big-
ger, more ambitious scale.
Long gone are Alien’s narrow corri-
dors, sharp corners, and claustrophobic
camera angles. Instead we have a series
of expensive looking sets and tons of
fancy technology that give this film a
whole new spin from what the audience
may have experienced with Alien. The
upside of this is that whatever Scott de-
cides to show on the screen, everything
looks marvellous, and the technical
crew have definitely outdone themselves
creating such gigantic stages for the ac-
tors to work on. The downside however,
is that much of the anticipated horror
has gone mute. The more dimension
this adds, the less effective the scares
become. A lot of tension is lost in how
much we are shown in the beginning,
and anyone expecting a full-on horror
film is bound to be disappointed.
Despite the many characters, the only
ones that require your attention are
Rapace’s Shaw, Marshall-Green’s Hol-
loway, Theron’s Vickers, and Michael
Fassbender’s David, the android. Other
than that, the rest of the cast is merely
there to be slain and to be served up as
body parts for the bad guys to mutilate.
One by one they fall, and at times, this
tragically feels like yet another violent
slasher horror in which the separated
members from the group have absolute-
ly no chance of survival.
So thank goodness for Fassbender,
who really gives the highlight perfor-
mance of the film. He plays David, a
loyal and smart android. But it’s difficult
to tell just what may be on his mind.
Who controls him? The company does,
presumably. But does he have thoughts
of his own? Technically, he shouldn’t,
and from what we see early on, he
seems quiet and innocent enough, duti-
fully carrying out his orders. But in his
inquisitive eyes, he appears to be more
complex and devious. He seems to be
thinking too much for someone acting
as the ship’s servant, and throughout the
film, he does make questionable moves
that have us doubting his true nature.
This is what Fassbender precisely right
through his charming yet disturbing
performance. He’s sweet natured yet
there is something undeniably creepy
about his stares.
Rapace, although not quite the Ellen
Ripley sci-fi warrior queen, is on top
form as the conflicted religious scientist.
Theron, so cold and distant to the point
where even a crewmember wonders
whether she is a robot or not, hovers and
lingers in the background with sinister
expression, suggesting concealed agen-
das.
The script is wordy, with dialogue
used mostly for explaining the details
and purpose behind this mission, and
is a touch too slow to get started. The
opening sequence, in which several
aerial shots of beautiful landscapes are
sewn together, is impressive, but with
Scott’s seemingly self-indulgent ways
and laboured pace, there are several
points in which the film loses its way,
focusing far too much on looking good
and not enough on its individual actors.
But in the end, boasting an unbelievably
huge scale and a talented cast does de-
liver a memorable experience. It’s last-
ing legacy, however, is unlikely to reach
the highest pinnacle of Scott’s career.
FILM
FELIX Friday 08 JUNE 2012 21

