Lolcat of teh week
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Editor-in-Prowling Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Alexander Karapetian Aemun Reza Features Editors
Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editor Indy Leclercq Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Business & Finance Editors Will Prince Deepka
Rana Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Mark
England Ross Gray Simon Hunter Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex Ramadan Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors George Barnett James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy
Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Philip
Kent Jonathan Kim Puzzles Admiral James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor
Learn Synchronised
Swimming in two hours
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 08 june 2012
2
CLASSIFIEDS
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for goods and services rendered, cool? Cool.
PAID RESEARCH – £100
2nd year engineering/geology undergraduates
studying at Imperial College London, London
School of Economics, University of Oxford, or
Manchester University.
We are looking for a pair of friends who are avail-
able to take part in a 1½ hour informal chat (plus
complete a diary).
Location – off Marylebone High Street, London
W1.
Monday 11 June 9 or 9.30am or
Tuesday 12 June 9am – 5pm – any time
Please email monica.g@btinternet.com with the
following:
Name, Age, Phone number, Subject, Availability
The Stu is a food & health magazine for students.
They are searching for an aspiring chef to create
and host a series of cooking shows.
Applicants don’t need to have professional
cooking experience, it’s just important that they
have a real passion for food and love cooking. If
you’re prepared to get involved with every aspect
of the research, creation and production of the
show, then this is definitely for you.
Go to www.thestu.co.uk/nido for more info and
to apply.
FREE Session, on Thursday the
28th of June, at Ethos swimming
pool, from 6.30pm to 8.30pm
Whether you are student or staff, male
or female, this is for you! The only
requirement: being able to stay afloat in the
deep end of the pool.
Synchronised swimming is the ideal
sport to cool down and disconnect after a
hard day of work. It is a mix of swimming,
dancing and gymnastics and is suited to
anyone of all abilities.
In just two hours our members and coach
will teach you all you need to know to do
synchronised swimming. You will even be
able to do a small routine with music –
thanks to out underwater speakers – at the
end of the session.
Our swimmers have between 6 months
and 10 years of practice and some have
participated in the French university
championship last month.
Book your space by sending an e-mail to:
syncswim@ic.ac.uk
IntoUniversity
Inspire the next
generation with
IntoUniversity
IntoUniversity provides local learning centres
where young people are inspired to achieve. The
Outreach Office at Imperial works in partnership
with IntoUniversity. Come along and get involved at
IntoUniversity by helping to support and inspire the
next generation!
Academic Support Programme: Volunteers act as
role models, supporting academic progress and
providing inspiration and encouragement to young
people. We ask that Volunteer Tutors commit to
at least one session per week, for approximately
2 hours.
Mentoring Programme: Mentoring pairs engage in
activities designed to support the mentee in three
areas; educational attainment, social skills and ex-
ploring future plans. Mentoring pairs are commit-
ted to meeting once every 2 weeks.
To participate in either the Academic Support or
Mentoring Programmes you will need to attend a
Training and Selection session. IntoUniversity will
hold its next training and selection sessions, on
Wednesday 20 June.
To apply, please contact, Tejiri Ukueku at intouni-
versity@imperial.ac.uk.
Hear from our current volunteer Nick:
“IntoUniversity is fun, educational, challenging and
a real eye opener. The most enjoyable part of volun-
teering with IntoUniversity is to be able to help chil-
dren who are struggling in education. It is great to
watch them make progressive steps and it is nice
to know that you are a part of that process. IntoUni-
versity is a well set up charity, with a good clear fo-
cus and it offers good support for its volunteers”.
Hear what Richard Watson, the centre leader at
Hackney has to say about Nick:
“Nick has become a fully established member of
the volunteer team, often taking new volunteers
under his wing to show them the ropes. He is ex-
tremely inspiring when supporting the young peo-
ple. He communicates clearly to the young people
and has a knack of explaining even the most dif-
ficult of concepts. We are truly grateful to have
Nick on our team, and it is clear by the thanks and
praise the young people give him that he is really
making a difference here at IntoUniversity Hackney
South”.

