FELIX
Friday 08 June 2012
22
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Shut up and deal: Shirley M
J
ack Lemmon is in love. He runs to his apartment to declare his feelings to
the one lady who means everything to him. And there she is, sitting on his
couch, getting ready to play their card game. He says: “I absolutely adore
you.” How sweet... but her response? “Shut up and deal.” And with those
four words, Shirley MacLaine puts an end to the perfect little Oscar-win-
ning romantic-comedy offering from Billy Wilder. It was a line that was thought
of last minute by the writers on-set. If this were any other film, the two would
have kissed and embraced. But with MacLaine’s sassy Fran Kubelik, The Apart-
ment finds a sweet and amusing end, bringing with it one of the most memorable
quotes and scenes of cinema history. That was back in 1960; more than 50 years
on, MacLaine is still a force to be reckoned with in Hollywood; a much respected,
highly celebrated name. This is why on 7 June 2012, the American Film Institute
(AFI) bestowed her its highest honour, the Life Achievement Award, and they
could not have picked a more deserving winner for the award. The ceremony
itself carried with it a touch of cringing, cheesy drama, with MacLaine’s co-stars
and friends getting on stage to unload lavish praises and compliments towards the
actress, but in the end it’s the incredible title that counts, something no-one can
take away from the accomplished star. She is the 40th (and 7th female) recipient
of this award, with past winners including Bette Davis, Lillian Gish, Barbara Stan-
wyck, Elizabeth Taylor, Barbra Streisand and Meryl Streep. And in celebrating
this magnificent feat, Felix Film looks over the past few decades of MacLaine’s
wonderfully diverse career.
1960s
The 60s got off to a fantastic start thanks to The Apartment (1960), the Best Picture winning rom-com which
paired her with Hollywood’s legendary leading man Jack Lemmon as well as its top director, Billy Wilder. She
received her second Academy Award nomination for this role, and was the hot favourite to win Best Actress in
1961. But she lost out to Elizabeth Taylor who had recently undergone surgery. MacLaine famously quipped
“I thought I would win for The Apartment, but then Elizabeth Taylor had a tracheotomy.” Nevertheless she kept
busy with high-quality work such as The Children’s Hour (1961) with Audrey Hepburn, and scored her third
Oscar nomination wth Irma La Douce (1963). The 60s also made way for her to dive into more comedic and
musical roles, participating in successful projects such as What a Way to Go! (1964), Gambit (1966), Woman
Times Seven (1967), and Sweet Charity (1969).
1970s
During the filming of Two Mules for Sister Sara (1970), co-star Clint Eastwood described MacLaine as be-
ing “too unfeminine” having “too much balls” and “very, very hard.” MacLaine wasn’t exactly known as the
conventional, beautiful leading lady type, but was more loved because of the strong, independent types of
women she played. Her fourth Academy Award nomination however, came from an unexpected source, a
documentary, directed and narrated by the actress, looking at mainland Chinese life. Desperate Characters
(1971) won her the Best Actress Silver Bear gong at the Berlin Film Festival, with another Oscar nomination
being added to her growing resume with her ballet drama The Turning Point (1977). In 1978 she was awarded
the Women in Film Crystal Awards, for her “endurance and excellence of [her] work, that have helped expand
the role of women within the entertainment industry.”
1980s
The 80s included a highlight moment the actress had been waiting for. She finally won that Oscar. Almost 30
years after her first nomination, she finally got to get up on that stage and a make teary speech. Of course,
the role she deservedly won for was Terms of Endearment (1983). Her career continued to grow, avoiding
a post-Oscar slump, something many actors do often experience. She triumphed at the 1988 Venice Film
Festival with Madame Sousatzka, winning the Best Actress Volpi Cup. She rounded off the 80s with her sup-
porting gig in Steel Magnolias (1989), or better known as “that film that gave Julia Roberts the big push in
Hollywood.”
1990s
In 1990, she was paired up with Meryl Streep, playing her mother in Postcards from the Edge which proved
to be a minor financial success. The 90s in general wasn’t a financially lucrative period for MacLaine’s films,
nor did they receive much critical attention. She starred in many large ensemble dramas such as Used People
(1992) with Kathy Bates, Marcia Gay Harden and Marcello Mastroianni, Wrestling with Hemingway (1993) with
Robert Duvall, Richard Harris, Piper Laurie and Sandra Bullock, Guarding Tess (1994) with Nicolas Cage, and
The Evening Star (1996) with Bill Paxton, Juliette Lewis and Miranda Richardson.
1950s
Named after the famous child actress Shirley Temple, MacLaine’s film career began in 1955 with her starring
role in Alfred Hitchcock’s The Trouble with Harry. Even in her debut performance, she won rave reviews as
well as a handful of awards, including a BAFTA nomination and a Golden Globe win. 1956 saw her cast in the
epically long (186 minutes), sumptuous ensemble epic Around the World in 80 Days, and by 1959, she had
already received her first Academy Award nomination for Some Came Running.
2000s
After her directorial feature film debut in 2000 (Bruno), MacLaine was mostly sought after for the funny,
straight-shooting, heavy-drinking, hot-tempered grandmother roles. Not at all complex and they do not exactly
attract a lot of awards, but she brought a touch of class and unique energy to all of them, no matter how seem-
ingly easy or trivial. Among her personal highlights (the films themselves are all distinctly average), there are:
Carolina (2003), Rumour Has It (2005), Bewitched (2005), In Her Shoes (2005) and Closing the Ring (2007).
2010s
MacLaine, at almost 80 years old, continues to keep active in an industry that is more than forunate to have
had her over many, many years. She has had recent roles in films including Garry Marshall’s over-stuffed
mass-ensemble rom-com Valentine’s Day (2010), and Bernie (2011), a hysterical black comedy that is yet to
be released in the UK.

