SPORT
FELIX
Friday 08 JUNE 2012
30
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sport Editor: Indy Leclercq
SPORT
FELIX
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sport Editor: Indy Leclercq
started to resemble a team. Alex Smith
at ‘left back’ (in inverted commas be-
cause rarely would you find him any-
where or the left side of the pitch let
alone at the back) could be found caus-
ing mayhem all over the place, scor-
ing more goals than the strikers. A dy-
namic trio of captain Mateusz Zarucki,
Taha Butt and the ever-angry Myles
Jarvis began to command the midfield
and combine towards not only a num-
ber of goals for themselves, but also
set-up the likes of Matt Pike or Nicu-
sor Popescu playing up front. With
everything going considerably better
than the first, the Hornets managed to
net themselves several victories. The
highlight being a 9-2 win in an Evelyn
Gardens derby against Fisher Hall FC,
in which defender Alex Coney dem-
onstrated his fantastic ability to stop a
ball using his face.
Quarter-final
Southwell ended the regular season in
4th position overall, landing them a
quarter-final tie with neighbours Hol-
bein and Willis Jackson, which turned
out to be more than eventful. South-
well were only able to convert one of
the many chances they created in the
first half. However, the real drama was
to follow in the second half. The action
immediately recommenced as South-
well stormed to a 4-1 lead with goals
from Alex Smith and Myles Jarvis.
The Holbein team eventually realised
that Alex ‘Sandy’ Riley was making
his debut in goal (in place of an ab-
sent Rob Hollinshead) and managed to
exploit this fact by scoring two quick
goals. All that remained on South-
well’s mind was to maintain the one
goal lead until the final whistle. Ev-
erything was going according to plan
until the last action of the game, when
human wrecking-ball Johan Rekers
(again, unnecessarily) steamrolled his
way through one of the Willy J players
in the box. This sparked a 20-minute
debate on the severity and malicious-
ness of the challenge, to which the two
captains settled on an unorthodox in-
direct free-kick in the penalty area to
Holbein and Willis Jackson FC. With
every single Southwell player lined up
on their own goal line, Holbein captain
Sean Jordan miraculously managed to
find the net, taking it into extra time.
With both teams clearly exhausted,
Southwell went behind after a spill
from Jono Palmer, who had relieved
Sandy Riley from his nightmare in
goal. In the second half of extra time,
Southwell showed true character and
fought back with a goal from Jarvis to
take the match into penalties.
The first four penalties taken by Butt,
Palmer, Jarvis and last-minute call up
Joe Kempton were dispatched with
no issue only to be matched by their
Holbein and Willis Jackson counter-
parts. The fifth penalty taker for Wil-
lis Jackson stepped up only to have
his attempt saved by another substitute
keeper: Matthew Taylor. The pressure
was now solely on the shoulders of
Alex Smith to carry Southwell through
to the next round. In an atmosphere
one can only describe as tantamount
to a World Cup Final, Smith failed to
seal the deal. Sudden death. One more
penalty rattled the back of the net for
Willis Jackson and so the burden shifts
to pasta-loving Italian Andrea Greco.
The keeper stands tall in his goal as
Greco strikes the ball. The next few
seconds seemed like a lifetime, as the
ball somehow ricocheted off one post
and on to the other before crossing the
line, leaving the Southwell team both
confused and overjoyed as they were
not out of it yet. The seventh penalty
for Willis Jackson resulted in another
brilliant save by Taylor which meant
that captain Zarucki, who had been
neglecting responsibility, or as he put
it, “regaining energy”, called his own
number and stepped up. Under the
pressure formed by a crowd or random
bypassers, Zarucki delivered one final
swing of his boot which secured the
Hornets passage into the semi-finals.
Semi-final
After such a close shave in the quar-
ters, Southwell were hoping to dispatch
Eastside FC in the semi-finals without
having to undergo the same drama.
Again, Southwell started strong, utilis-
ing the long throw of Taha Butt to
penetrate Eastside’s box on numerous
occasions resulting in goals from Jono
Palmer and Mateusz Zarucki in the
first half. It was also apparent during
this game that the back four of South-
well had finally found some cohesion.
Man-mountain Alex Coney, along with
the slick-skilled Martin Kouame, who
had anchored the back four throughout
most of the season, teamed up with
James Johnston and an out-of-position
Jono Palmer, to provide Southwell
with a solid defence and only their
second clean sheet of the season. With
another goal by Jono Palmer bagged in
the closing stages of the second half,
Southwell wrapped up the semi-final
with a convincing 3-0 win just as news
filtered through from the opposite
pitch that Beit FC too had won, setting
up a mouth-watering final.
Final
Southwell, dressed in their infamous
black and neon-yellow kits, came
into the final as underdogs against
last year’s winners, Beit Hall, kitted
out in a more subtle and professional
(and boring) navy blue. The biggest
game of the season was done justice
by a record-breaking crowd of three
die-hard supporters who had made the
long journey to Harlington to cheer on
their team. As he had all season long,
captain Zarucki gave a motivational
and very emotional team talk before
the match. At 2pm, with the scorching
sun high in the sky, the match kicked
off. In the early stages both teams
started slowly in an attempt to not
waste too much energy. A few probing
balls and decent runs down the wing
by Moe ‘MoeMoe’ Fekry was all that
could be mustered by both sides. The
best chance of the first half fell for
Beit when a corner headed back across
the six yard boxed was poked towards
goal only to be saved by Hollinshead.
Captain Zarucki kept his team inspired
as chances during the first half seemed
fairly few and far between for South-
well who couldn’t quite find the final
ball, despite the relentless effort by the
midfield in the blistering heat. Mat-
thew Taylor returned to the side, after
missing the semi-final, to play cen-
tre back allowing Martin Kouame to
move to left back. Both players put in
excellent performances hassling some
of Beit’s key personnel. With a free-
kick taken by Beit’s Bilal Abou El Ela
flying over the bar, the first half action
wrapped up and both sides retired to
the shade with a goalless draw.
With oranges at the ready, Zarucki
delivered his halftime team talk and
the mood was pretty good in the South-
well camp. Out of the sun and finally
able to gather themselves together, the
Southwell team then went about plot-
ting how to improve upon their per-
formance before heading back out into
the heat.
The second half began a lot more
spritely for Southwell. Taha Butt and
Tito Bastianello combined well in
midfield distributing the ball a lot bet-
ter and picking out players’ runs. As
always, Andrea Greco provided much
needed width down the left flank as
Southwell managed to get some decent
crosses into the box and put pressure
on the Beit back four. The first clear-
cut chance for the boys in black and
yellow came via Jarvis’ failed attempt
to convert Butt’s goal-bound corner
by clearing it off the Beit goal line in-
stead. Beit however weren’t going to
give in that easily and an onslaught of
long balls and darting sprints rained
down on the Hornets’ defence. For-
tunately, Alex Coney and Matthew
Taylor were once again up to the task
of putting their boot through anything
that came within scoring distance of
the Southwell goal. After strikes by
Taha Butt and Nicusor Popescu (which
were closer to the corner flag than the
goal) combined with the relentless sun
caused tempers to fray as both sides
became impatient. With challenges
flying in all over the shop, some more
dangerous than others, heated argu-
ments between the teams sprouted and
then the match got a lot more personal.
The game continued to ebb and flow
with both sides getting close to their
opponents’ goal yet still not breaking
the deadlock.
At around the 75 minute mark, Beit
were awarded a free kick in dangerous
“The two captains
settled on an unor-
thodox indirect free-
kick”
“The second half be-
gan a lot more sprite-
ly for Southwell”
Southwell seize the glory at Harlington
...Continued from Back Page
Tensions ran high during the Southwell vs. Beit final at Harlington

