SPORT
FELIX Friday 08 JUNE 2012 31
territory. A four man wall was con-
structed and Bilal once again stepped
up to take it. This time his free-kick
was on target and required a reaction
save from goalkeeper Hollinshead to
his left. The danger was not over. A
poorly cleared corner ball found of one
of the Beit team members, Oli Klottka,
who struck the ball goal-bound, but
was cleared off the line by the ever-re-
liable face of centre back Alex Coney.
Southwell replied with a dangerous
header from captain Zarucki, which
was followed by a decent save from
Beit captain Chris Aspinall. Finally the
game’s excitement seemed to be living
up to its billing.
Southwell began to counter by find-
ing space down the wings. With five
minutes to go, Greco linked up well
with Kouame (who finally had enough
energy to take part in an offensive
play) and managed to cross the ball
through one of Beit’s player’s legs to
the Southwell captain on the edge of
the box. Without hesitation, Mateusz
took the shot with his left foot and
slotted the ball past the keeper into the
bottom left corner. Goalscorer Zarucki
immediately headed to the corner flag
where he began to engage in some
risqué activities with the flag before
being joined by the rest of the team,
bench and all, in a euphoric celebra-
tion. Needless to say Beit were not
pleased and were keen to get play back
underway.
Content with a one goal lead with
only minutes remaining, shouts of
“nil-nil” and “play it safe” reverber-
ated around the Southwell team. Yet
only minutes after the restart, Jarvis’
100th attempt to get past all of the Beit
team finally succeeded as he broke
free of the defence down the left hand
side, where he managed to fire home
a second goal from a narrow angle. A
two goal lead for Southwell in the last
minutes was everything the Hornets
could have asked for, and they knew
that they couldn’t have let that chance
slip by.
With only injury time to go, a rath-
er audacious effort on goal from the
halfway line by Beit’s Bilal was dealt
with comfortably, as the pressure on
Beit started to mount faster and faster.
More taunts going back and forth be-
tween players really brought to light
how much this game meant to both
sides. In a desperate attempt from
Beit FC, Bilal’s header managed to hit
the crossbar. The Southwell defences
stood strong against the multiple balls
played into the box from either wing,
with Martin Kouame cementing his
Man of the Match award.
After what seemed like an eternity to
the Hornets, the referee blew the final
whistle and Southwell & Bernard Sun-
ley Hornets FC were thereby crowned
the 2012 Champions of the Interhall
Evelyn Gardens Cup! The celebra-
tions began almost immediately with
‘MoeMoe’ leading the spraying of
water, mimicking champagne, and the
drenching of the captain in an Ameri-
can sport style ‘Gatorade bath’. At the
prize giving ceremony, Beit were very
gracious in defeat and all in-match
hostility dissipated. As the trophy was
hoisted high into the air in front of
the three fans to rapturous applause,
there was a moment to reflect on the
whole season and just how much we
changed as a team since the shoddy
performances just months ago, to the
champions we were now.
“More taunts [...]
brought to light how
much this game
meant to both sides”
Captain’s Post Match Statement
“Our strength was not that we had individualities in the squad, but
that we formed a team that really understood each other on and
off the pitch. I would like to thank you all for coming Sunday after
Sunday and giving your best, as well as having to read my useless
Facebook posts and listen to my very emotional speeches – I
hope that you all had just as much fun as I did! I would also like
to thank Anthony Hennelly and Sport Imperial for organizing this
event and giving us a way of taking a break from all the work!”
– Southwell and Bernard Sunley FC Captain Mateusz Zarucki
Not champagne, but close enough
Victory is sweet for Southwell. Sport Imperial medals are even sweeter Clash of the titans
To the victors, the spoils

