NEWS
FELIX Friday 08 june 2012 5
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut
and shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by
highly experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
To book an appointment,
call 0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Low turnout for General Meeting
The Imperial College Union General
Meeting was held on Wednesday 6
June, with several ideas proposed that
could see the structure of the Union
considerably change.
To make the meeting quorate (or for
the attendees to have the ability to put
proposed ideas into action) 200 eli-
gible members were required to be in
attendance. Roughly 20 attended. The
meeting took thus took the form of
an informal discussion, with all con-
sidered motions to be put forward to
Council, after all of the motions were
met with general approval for those in
attendance.
There were several proposed chang-
es to the way the Union is run. The
first proposition would place Sabbati-
cal Officers on the Union’s Trustee
Board, which is responsible for the
strategic overview of the Union’s fi-
nances, objectives and strategy. The
reasoning behind this was that the Of-
ficers are “most in the know” about
the way the Union is run, with the ad-
ditional claim that such a move would
“decrease the power of the President”.
The President is currently the only
person on the board.
It was also proposed that two stu-
dent trustees would be elected and two
would be appointed rather than the
current election of all four. This was
said to “even up the representation,”
Matthew Colvin
campaign. The Member of Parliament
for Hammersmith, Andy Slaughter,
has also written a letter to the Bor-
ough’s planning department in March
being highly critical of the plans, say-
ing many of the buildings proposed in
the plans “will be an oppressive pres-
ence in a neighbourhood of traditional
two-storey houses in a conservation
area”. This is in addition to a report by
the Royal Borough of Kensington and
Chelsea, who objected to the “height,
bulk and design” of three of the pro-
posed buildings (including a 35 storey
tower).
This delay only affects “Phase 2” of
the Imperial West project, which in-
cludes teaching and research facilities.
“Phase 1”, which consists of postgrad-
uate accommodation and demolition
of the existing BBC buildings, has al-
ready been approved, and construction
is expected to complete in August.
A new date for the planning commit-
tee meeting to discuss the proposals
has not yet been set, but a date of 10
July is the earliest possible that one can
occur.
“[Imperial West] will
be an oppressive
presence”
Imperial West continues to face
opposition from residents
Residents have objected to the potential view of a 35 storey tower
...Continued from Front Page
shepherds-bush.blogspot.com
The meeting took the form of an informal discussion
as some faculties are currently under-
represented on the Trustee Board.
The restructuring and reshaping the
Sabbatical Officer roles was also con-
sidered, with the current position of
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
being renamed as Deputy President
(Activities), under the remit of han-
dling Clubs and Societies and their
officers. The most substantial change
came with the removal of Deputy
President (Finance & Services) and
the potential introduction of Deputy
President (Student Development),
who would handle volunteering, fun-
draising and student citizenship. The
introduction of a Postgraduate Sabbat-
ical officer was also met with unani-
mous approval.
One proposition considered the
election process in the Union, follow-
ing controversies over the running of
this year’s Big Elections. The Return-
ing Officer was proposed to become
an external individual with no con-
nection to the Union. It was also pro-
posed that seconders be removed from
the election process, with the reason-
ing for this being given that they are
a “barrier” to elections, particularly
postgraduates. It was touched upon
that seconders have the potential to
prevent ‘joke candidates’ from stand-
ing, but it was decided that the vot-
ers themselves choose who is the best
candidate for the job “by voting them
in.” It was also claimed that this meth-
od has been proven to work in other
Unions across the country. Union
Council has previously rejected the
idea of lowering the number of sec-
onders required.
Tim Arbabzadah
Matthew Colvin
Blackboard Learn set for Imperial
Matthew Colvin
Imperial College’s virtual learning en-
vironment (VLE) is set to undergo an
overhaul in time for next September, fol-
lowing a two year process to determine a
successor for the College’s current VLE.
The new system, known as Blackboard
Learn, was decided upon by a working
group established in order to replace the
current Blackboard CE8, which is set to
be unsupported by education technology
company Blackboard itself, and which
has, by their own admission, “become
quite dated”. The VLE Review Working
Group was established by the E-learning
Strategy Committee in February 2010.
During 2010, an extensive consultation
process with students and staff was un-
dertaken, leading to a a specification of
requirements for the replacement VLE.A
shortlist was drawn up, with four systems
put forward for consideration.
Two of these were proprietary (Black-
board Learn and Desire2Learn) and
two open source systems (Moodle and
Sakai). Representatives from these ser-
vices were invited to provide a demon-
stration and answer questions from Im-
perial. Following this, Moodle and Sakai
were eliminated from the process, with
pilot programs of the remaining systems
organised.
The pilot phase for the shortlisted sys-
tems ran from September 2011 to March
2012, including staff and students across
College. The working group reviewed
the results of the scheme, identifying
any potential “showstoppers”, or items
that would stop people from using a par-
ticular VLE. Neither VLE emerged as
an outright winner, however after taking
into consideration additional costs for
running Desire2Learn, the group admit-
ted that it would be “difficult” to justify
a move to this system given the lack of
clear cross-faculty support.
The working group ultimately recom-
mended Blackboard Learn as the new
College VLE, with the additional sugges-
tion of College ‘keeping an eye’ on the
emergence of new cloud-based VLEs.
Deputy President (Education) Jason
Parmar, who sits on the E-learning Strat-
egy Committee, commented on the rela-
tionship between the current Blackboard
system and Blackboard Learn: “It’s quite
important to note that these are two com-
pletely different systems – the only thing
they have in common being the name.
[The new system] might as well be called
WhiteBoard.”
He continued: “I would like to thank
the Working Group for their extensive
student consultation throughout the en-
tire process, most notably through myself
and the previous two Deputy President
(Education)’s (Alex Dahinten and Jona-
than Silver) as well as usability testing
with students whereby students were
given the opportunity to test and score
the two piloted systems”.
Blackboard Learn will provide new
functions such as a built-in wiki. It was
praised during the pilot program for its
design and layout, and its comparative
ease of handling to Blackboard CE8. A
launch scheduled for September 2012,
and implementation will progress from
this point onwards.

