ceive so many emails from Ernst and
Young not because they are excellent,
but because they are rich.
It’s important to know that a lot of
the information we receive is driven by
wealth rather than quality.
For those of us interested in, for ex-
ample, journalism (and there are a lot
of us, just look at the award-winning
Felix) the system can be quite unhelp-
ful. I very nearly convinced myself to
work for a bank (something I certainly
would have hated) because it seemed to
be the only job. My acquaintance, with
whom I visited the careers fair, was ex-
actly the same.
As another student said, “Unless
you’re already clued up about what you
want to do, it can seem like banking (or
a PhD I guess) is the only option.”
Last term, I complained about the
lack of information for people who
want to work for a charity. The direc-
tor of the Careers Service informed me
that, in May, the Internships Careers
of representatives of Banking, Finance,
Technology, Law and Consulting, as
well as slightly larger variety of career
events, including Journalism and Char-
ity fairs.
Instead of Targeted Emailing, though,
Cambridge has an opt-in system called
CLICK. Students can select which ca-
reers they are interested in, and they’ll
receive emails only about these.
UCL Careers is quite open about its
funding. Its “[self-generated] income
currently supports staff salaries, stu-
dent IT facilities, careers publications
and the development of services and
events.” One wonders whether the ser-
vice is funded by the University at all.
UCL has no sponsorship club of any
kind, though it does have individual
sponsors with even less variety than
Imperial’s: Citi, Deloitte, Ernst &
Young, KPMG, the usual culprits.
But none of these Universities can
get anywhere near Oxford in terms of
over-sponsorship. For a mere £3,500
per year, you could be a Recruiters’
Group Partner, giving you access to a
database of Oxford students. The da-
tabase contains personal information,
including contact details, languages
spoken and academic ability. Members
of this group are permitted to contact
the students using the details provided.
On the upside, membership of this
Recruiters’ Group is free to all chari-
ties, and heavily discounted to small
businesses; but whether this mitigates
the creepiness of the student database
is hard to say.
It seems, then, that Imperial’s Ca-
reers Service is fairly typical of the
services at similar universities, though
(thankfully) not quite like Oxford’s.
How to fix it
Back at Imperial: the Careers Service,
of course, is not to blame for this situ-
ation: they genuinely do the best they
can for students with what they are
given. The problem is, I think, a lack
of funding from the University.
“We have organised public sector
career forums in the past,” Farrar told
me, “however low student attendance
rates have meant we have had to pri-
FEATURE
FELIX Friday 08 JUNE 2012 7
f too much sponsorship
s why many students seem disappointed with heavily sponsored Careers Services
What the students say*:
“Unless you’re already clued up about what you want to do,
it can seem like banking (or a PhD I guess) is the only option
out there.Would be nice if other kinds of careers got a look
in.”
“My view on the problem with the Careers Service is that
when you measure the success of an organisation primarily
by how many people get jobs and how much they get paid,
it’s not surprising that they push the latter.”
“I don’t want to work for a bank or a massive corporation so
it’s pretty much useless to me.”
“If it’s the case that the big banks, accountancy firms etc are
particularly interested in Imperial students and are offering
up plenty of places, why wouldn’t the Careers Service help
advertise the clear demand for Imperial students?”
“They’re very good, if you go in with the right mentality.”
“The life that is most pushed down Imperial students’ throats
is banking and banking-related jobs; the reason why is our
Careers Service receives almost no funding from College and
is therefore forced to sell us to those most able to pay.”
“There is definitely not enough variety in the career options
presented to us.”
*Despite what you may think, this actually is a representa-
tive sample.
“A lot of the infor-
mation we receive
is driven by wealth
rather than quality.”
“Releasing the Ca-
reers budget would
prejudice Imperial’s
commerical interests.”
Fair would be “specifically targeting
the charity sector.”
When I went to the fair, I found that
only six of the 44 stalls were held by
charities, compared with 8 consulting
firms and 15 technology companies.
One of the charities, in fact, isn’t actu-
ally a registered charity in the UK.
Although it is not the case, it looks
as though non-corporate job opportu-
nities are marginalised (to the nervous
newcomer, it looks as though these job
opportunities don’t exist at all). Which,
when you consider the wealth disparity
between Oxfam and Goldman Sachs, is
not surprising.
An inevitable consequence, perhaps,
of the fact that the amount of dispos-
able income a company has determines
how much we hear about them.
What it’s like elsewhere
Cambridge is much the same as Imperi-
al, with a “Supporters Club” consisting
oritise other types of fair.” That this
should be a problem says a lot about
the Careers Service’s funding.
I have attempted several times to find
details of the Careers Service’s budget,
to no avail. In response to a Freedom
of Information request earlier this year,
the College claimed that releasing the
information would “prejudice the com-
mercial interests” of the University.
But given that the Careers Service
charges money for attending careers
fairs, sponsoring careers fairs, adver-
tising in Careers magazines, send-
ing emails, and joining the Patron’s
Club, and all without making a profit,
I would guess that the central funding
isn’t enough to run the service. Indeed,
it seems that most of what the Careers
Service does is a sponsorship opportu-
nity for companies.
And this is what I mean by privati-
sation. Instead of funding the Careers
Service directly, the College prefers to
save money by letting companies pay
for it, to the apparent detriment of stu-
dents: when so many students see ad-
vertising as endorsement, this is a very
dangerous position.
“The Careers Advisory Service
aims to ensure it caters for all student
needs,” according to Farrar. But can it
do this under the current funding sys-
tem?
The situation will get worse be-
fore it gets better. The Government’s
Higher Education White Paper insists
that universities must do more to pro-
mote “employer sponsorship” in order
to “make the UK the best place in the
world for university-industry collabo-
ration.” Perhaps Imperial will start
awarding corporate-sponsored de-
grees, as the same piece of legislation
recommends.
So what can we do? Not much I’m
afraid, though some small victories
have already been won. Last term, I
complained that there was no way of
opting out of Targeted Emails, as none
of the emails up to that point had of-
fered me the choice.
Elspeth Farrar told me that “ Stu-
dents can opt out of receiving these,”
and from that point on, all Targeted
Emails asked whether I wished to un-
subscribe. A small thing, yes, but pub-
lic pressure can make a difference.
The real question is whether we can
convince the University to give more
money to the Careers Service, and I
suspect the answer is no (why would
they, when other universities don’t?).
Still, it’s worth a try!
A fully referenced version of this article
is available at rustylight.blogspot.com

