A
t first they thought that the
experiment had gone awry.
They’d spent years studying
silicon compounds and thought
they knew what to expect. But
this compound was different. It was unstable,
seemingly unpredictable – constantly shifting
between electronic states. This compound was
misbehaving.
“We were puzzled,” remembers Professor
Tony Kenyon, head of the Photonic Materi-
als Laboratory at University College London.
“The immediate thought was that there was
something wrong. I had a new PhD student, so
I gave him some samples and said: ‘go and find
out what the problem is’.”
That student was Adnan Mehonic, and he
was about to tell his supervisor something
very surprising. “He came back to me and said,
they’re not unstable, they’re programmable.”
And did the professor believe him? “I looked
at Adnan’s evidence and thought: that’s real.
This is a really exciting prospect.”
What Professor Kenyon’s team had inadver-
tently created was an electronic component
that could not only vary its resistance, but also
“remember” its last resistive state. Silicon ox-
ide is usually an electronic insulator, but the
team believe that the “extra” atoms within
their compound move around when exposed to
an electric field, forming conductive filaments.
By altering the voltage, resistance can be con-
tinuously varied, creating a special type of
electronic switch. Their compound, it seemed,
was a memory-resistor – a memristor.
The memristor’s existence was first postulat-
ed in 1971, but scientists long struggled to turn
Sweet, sweet serendipity
FELIX
Friday 08 june 2012
8
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
“”
If you find yourself
competing against
silicon, don’t.
These days we are overwhelmed with clever tech-
nology. From the wonders of the iPad to the practi-
cality of satellite navigation. There are few areas of
our lives that are not enhanced by technology, so
it is hard to imagine how it could develop further.
But, surprisingly, the answer may be in nature – in
bacteria, to be precise.
A research group at Leeds University have been
working with magnet-making bacteria and their find-
ings may provide a step towards producing more
cost-effective and environmentally-friendly electron-
ics in the future.
In nature, these bacteria have been observed to
‘eat’ iron to create a surface of magnets, similar to
those found in computer hard drives. “No one really
knows why they make them, but it seems to help
them line up along the magnetic field allowing them
to find their ‘happy place’, where they can can ac-
cess food and oxygen,” explains doctoral student,
Joanna Galloway, lead author of the study.
The bacteria used in this research were identi-
fied originally in 1975, however this is the first time
they’ve been successfully grown in the lab. “They
live in really niche, narrow environments so they’re
quite difficult to actually grow in a lab and study
properly,” says Galloway.
The team have been working on a ‘bottom-up’
approach to create these environmentally-friendly
computers. This is where components are left to
assemble themselves into a pattern, compared
to the ‘top-down’ approach of technology produc-
tion where desired patterns are etched out from a
surface. The benefits are cost friendly too. “Rather
than having to use expensive equipment each time,
if you maintain the right conditions you can get the
materials to assemble themselves. Also, the tech-
nique doesn’t require horrible chemicals or high
temperatures so its very cost effective,” explains
Galloway.
Currently the researchers are working with tem-
peratures of 80ºC to develop these magnetic par-
ticles but now they are working on testing their
effectiveness at room temperature. They will also
be trying out different magnetic proteins to assess
their ability to store and retain information like a
computer.
Despite this research being in its early stages, it
is possible that we could witness the beginnings of
a biological computer in most of our lifetimes, “in
15 years time, you wouldn’t have a whole bacte-
rial computer but prototype components for it could
possibly be templated using this process.”
I wonder if Apple will catch on to this...ePad any-
one?!
Julia Robinson
Magnet-making bacteria,
assemble!
theory into practice. Then, in 2008, IT-giant
Hewlett-Packard announced the creation of the
world’s first memristor – and with it, a type of
electronic memory a hundred-times faster and
a thousand-times more efficient than its com-
petitors. Unfortunately for HP, this titanium-
based compound, like the variations that have
followed, was both expensive to produce and
unviable in ambient conditions.
The UCL device is neither of these things. It
is also made of silicon, the element quite liter-
ally at the core of global electronics. There’s a
saying in the industry, says Professor Kenyon:
“If you find yourself competing against sili-
con, don’t.” His team have stuck to this max-
im, making it relatively easy to assimilate their
component into existing silicon technology, be
it microchips, processors, or even satellites.
Which explains why industry has taken such
an interest. According to Professor Kenyon,
discussions are underway with several leading
companies and the new technology could hit
the market in as little as three years, “if we’re
lucky.” An apt disclaimer from a scientist who
knows the value of a little bit of good luck.
Victoria Charlton on a surprising discovery and a resisitor that remembers
It is a truth universally acknowledged that glob-
al warming is a bad thing. Icebergs are melting,
seas are rising and holidays to the Maldives
may become relegated to wistful anecdotes of
the iPod generation. However for species such
as the Aricia agestis or Brown Argus butterfly,
warmer autumns such as the one the UK experi-
enced in 2011 are providing an opportunity for
them to spread their wings and multiply.
Research at the University of York showed
that rather than constraining the habitat of the
butterfly, the warmer climate in recent years has
changed the diet of the Brown Argus, allowing
caterpillar development to take place in much
more northerly locations than ever before.
“While it [the Brown Argus] was previously
restricted to using Rockrose, it’s now been
able to incorporate Geranium species into its
diet – and we don’t think its been an evolution-
ary switch,” says Rachel Pateman, lead author
of the study. Rachel and her team believe that
the butterflies have always had the capacity to
complete their life cycle using the widespread
Geranium species, but only when the weather
is warmer. Now that climate change has in-
creased summer temperatures, the Brown Ar-
gus can use this common species to lay their
eggs in more geographically distinct areas.
The data, collected by volunteers from the
UK charity Butterfly Conservation and pub-
lished in the journal Science, highlights the
disparity between the traditional view of cli-
mate change as a catastrophic problem and
the finer details of its effects. However the au-
thors of the study are careful to highlight that
the Brown Argus is just one positive result in
a plethora of data. “There’ll be winners and
losers from climate change,” says Rachel Pate-
man. And it isn’t just other species that may
be threatened from the effects of a warmer cli-
mate. The Brown Argus has only been studied
in the UK so far. “We don’t know what’s go-
ing on in other parts of its range, because its
distributed throughout Europe and through to
Butterflies get boost from climate
NorthAfrica, so it might be that in those places
its getting too warm for it and its doing badly
there,” Rachel cautions.
The issue of global warming is set to stir up
interesting findings and debate in the future.
While rising temperatures are good news for
the Brown Argus butterfly, it is important to
remember those species that may not get their
day in the sun.
Helen Wilkes
Brown Argus butterfly is one species that has benefited from climate change
Jim Asher

