12 FRIDAY 08 NOV
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Hello again.
So, today sees the opening of the infamous
h-bar, the new pub that has opened in the
Sherfield building on the side of the ‘old’
Holland Bar. This is an interesting event for
postgraduate students and staff members,
most of whom still fondly remember the old
pub.
There are some major improvements
in the new venue, including a dedicated
food service, a larger drinking space, easy
wheelchair access and more space for club
and society activities. On the downside for
PG’s and staff members they’ve lost the use
of two snooker tables and they have to share
part of the space with undergraduate students
for a Monday–Thursday dinner service (5:30-
7PM), albeit with the bar section separated by
a partition. We look forward to your letters
about the new h-bar, all comments welcome,
whether glowing praise or long rants. Well,
reasonably long rants.
Tuesday saw the presence of Imperial
regular, the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson.
The mayor came to campus to take part in a
‘People’s Question Time’, which was an event
where the people of London had the chance
to hold him to account in a public forum.
Tickets were quickly snapped up and luckily
Felix was able to attend, and we were even
able to get an exclusive picture of the Mayor
outside the library, moments before he began
his cycle home.
Finally, yes there was a colossal amount of
rainforsomepartsofthisweek,italmostmakes
one tempted to check the weather forecast. Oh
well, time to use the new umbrella.
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Of the h-bar, Boris
and the weather
Letters
Dearest Felix Editor,
This Druid still refuses to apologise for the
harm he is planning to cause to the Union.
Furthermore he has now started insulting my
intelligence by asking a question of infantile
proportions. Perhaps for this weed smok-
ing hippy of the forest it would have been a
question of certain difficulty, but not for the
mighty paladin! The answer is obviously, 2....
AND 0!!! HAHA you thought you had caught
me out Druid, try again and see if you can
beat the might of the light! I would wish to
ask you a question, but judging by the ease
by which I answered yours I believe that any
question that I ask would blow your mind and
burn your already shoddy robes! I once again
await an apology, for all those of us who have
suffered ice cream related incidents!
The Paladin
JOSEPH letts
Who won? Who
lost? You decide!
Hiya, guess what? Yes, we’re still looking for
writers and news reporters! We don’t care if
you’re a scientist, engineer, medic or something
else, come and write an article for us! felix.

