13
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 08 NOV
ARTS
British Museum strikes gold
with Beyond El Dorado
Arts Recommends
Astronomy Photographer of the Year @ Royal Observatory Greenwich, SE10
The Greenwich Observatory presents the winning and shortlisted images from
across the world for the ever-popular Astronomy Photographer of the Year
competition, showcasing stunning photographs ranging from within the solar
system to into deep space.
Until 23rd February, FREE
RADAR 2013: Signals from the New Writing World @ Bush Theatre, W12
Festival of intriguing sneak peeks, stimulating debates and inspiring
performances that will shine a light on the hottest new writing talent of today,
and explore the urgent questions facing theatre in this moment and beyond.
Includes poetry nights and an artist’s tour of Shepherd’s Bush.
6th - 21st November, £3 - £15
Pop Art Design @ Barbican Art Gallery, EC2
Featuring over 200 works by more than 70 trailblazing artists and designers,
Pop Art Design is the first comprehensive exhibition to explore the exciting
exchange of ideas between artists and designers in the Pop Age. Includes
students-only guided tours by Wallpaper* magazine editors.
Until 9th February, £8 students, £12 adults
H
igh in the Andean jungle, to
the sound of drums, flutes
and trumpets, ‘El Dorado’, the
golden one, the future king
of the Muisca tribe, prepares
to dive into sacred Lake Guatavita.
Covered from head to toe in gold
dust, he tosses emeralds into the water
below as an offering to the ethereal
spirits that reside in everyone and
everything.
It was witnessing ceremonies like this
that prompted early Spanish explorers
to speak of a land so rich in gold that
their cities were almost dripping with
it. Even now, the idea of El Dorado
conjures up images in the minds of
most Europeans of some mythical city
of gold, deep in the South American
rainforest - proof of how deeply this
myth has infiltrated our notions of this
magical land.
This mythical ritual was only one
of many that occurred amongst
the pre-Hispanic tribes of ancient
Colombia. The Beyond El Dorado
exhibition at the British museum sets
out to decipher this El Dorado legend
and, as the title suggests, go beyond
this to uncover the truth behind the
amazingly complex spiritual worlds
of these tribes. Through extensive
new archaeological research, viewers
gain a clearer picture of civilisations,
previously only known about through
the journals of colonisers, looking to
make it big in this land of wealth and
opportunity.
The exhibition brings together pieces
from all of the ancient Colombian
kingdoms in a broad display of artistic
majesty and sophistication not evident
anywhere else in the pre-colonial
Americas. Their ability to manipulate
gold through advanced casting and
hammering processes into divine
piecesofartisunquestionable,evenjust
by looking at the remaining artifacts
not melted down and taken back to
Spain by gluttonous conquistadors.
The way that gold doesn’t tarnish
and is effectively ageless can make
the material seem oddly impersonal,
inexpressive and monotonous.
Moreover, it can feel over-extravagant
and emotionally detached, especially
when not in motion. Unless it is
animated, glistening, you do not
get the same effect of power and
transcendence. However, the gold in
this exhibition is suitably dispersed
amongst a wide array of ceramic and
jewellery pieces, keeping it interesting
and giving a more varied picture of the
technical skill of these vibrant agrarian
societies.
In 1499, when the Spanish arrived on
the shores of Colombia, they found a
people rich in resources beyond their
wildest dreams. However, gold was
not seen as an economic commodity
amongst these peoples. It was a highly
spiritual material, with all the power
and energy of the sun, turning anyone
who wore it into a living deity. Its magic
enabled spiritual transformations that
converted shaman into birds, jaguars
or other powerful creatures. Music,
dance and hallucinogens heightened
them into a trance-like state where they
gained the abilities of these animals
– knowledge, strength, speed – all of
which could help their communities
in war or if struck by disease. They
even wore gold helmets in battles;
completely inept at stopping an arrow
but, with all the power that channeled
through them, the warriors who wore
them believed they were invincible
with the whole cosmos on their side.
Transformation played a large part
in the lives of these tribes. Their art
consistently shows humans in the
process of metamorphosis, with
whiskers or snake scales, and they often
practicedbodypaintingorscarification
to create further modification. These
ceremonials aimed to blur the lines
between spiritual and worldly power,
making chiefs into demi-gods that
the people idolised and worshipped.
Tumbaga, an alloy of gold and silver,
was the material mainly used to create
their ornamentation and also had
spiritual meaning as well as practical
benefits. As well as being stronger
than pure gold, tumbaga represented a
union of gold, imbibed with the sun’s
energy, and silver’s luminescent quality
represents the power and majesty of
the moon. By combining the two, the
universe was united and art made from
it had a heavenly aura like nothing else.
Beyond El Dorado represents a
rediscovery of the intricate societies,
which, up until now, had been largely
ignored by European history. It was
as if they were the new Spanish
conquistadors returning from a far
flung land, with new artifacts set to
dazzle and delight. The exhibition
felt unique, exciting and extremely
comprehensive, just as one would
expect from the British Museum. I
do wish, however, there was more
anthropological research done
into these tribes as opposed to
purely archaeological, as it would
contextualize what I was seeing
much more. To be able to see videos
of modern tribes performing rituals
with full body art and decoration
would have just added the little extra
sparkle that this golden exhibition was
missing.
© TRUSTEES OF THE BRITISH MUSEUM
Kamil McClelland
Writer
What: Beyond El Dorado: Power and
Gold In Ancient Columbia
Where: The British Museum, WC1
When: Until 23rd March 2014
Price: £7 students, £9 adults
© MUSEO DEL ORO, BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA, COLOMBIA
1,500 masterpieces looted by the
Nazis found in Munich
Arianna Sorba
Arts Editor
A
round one billion euros worth
of art has been discovered in
the home of an 80 year old
man in Munich. The collection,
including pieces by Matisse,
Picasso, Renoir and others, represents
one of the largest recoveries of looted
art in recent history, and includes
many pieces previously unknown to art
scholars.
The Nazis confiscated or destroyed
artworks throughout the 1930s and
1940s that they deemed ‘degenerate’
or ‘un-German’
, including many
expressionist, surrealist, cubist
and Dada masterpieces. They also
acquired entire collections of Jewish
art collectors, either by forcing them
to sell to the Nazis at extremely low
prices, or simply taking them once the
true owners had fled the country.
This particular haul was originally
gathered by Hildebrand Gurlitt, a
museum director who was meant to
be selling looted works abroad to make
money for the Nazis. Instead, he kept
the works for himself, reported that the
entire collection had been destroyed
in the bombing of Dresden in 1945,
and eventually handed them down to
his son, Cornelius. The collection was
only discovered when the reclusive
Cornelius, now 80 years old, was by
chance investigated for tax evasion,
and the 1,500 artworks were found
stacked amongst empty juice cartons
and tins of food in a darkened room in
his flat. It appears that Cornelius, who
hasn’t been seen since August this year,
never had a job or even opened a bank
account, and kept himself in pocket by
occasionally selling off a masterpiece
or two to art galleries and auction
houses.
The initial discovery was actually
made early last year, in February 2012,
but the German authorities have
since been sitting on the information
in order to give art historians time to
clarify the works’ values and origins.
There’s also the rather difficult task of
finding the rightful owners – or even
the descendants of the owners – of
the artworks. While most pieces do
appear to have been acquired illegally
during the war years, the emergence
of paintings by old masters such as
Canaletto further complicate the
situation, and suggest that at least some
of the collection has been legitimately
bought by Gurlitt senior and thus really
do belong to Cornelius. It could take
years before the artworks are returned,
restored and finally displayed for the
public once again.
GUIDING LIGHT TO THE STARS BY MARK GEE (AUSTRALIA)

