14 FRIDAY 08 NOV
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
BOOKS
The dangers of being strange
Imagine a white hot day blazing around
you, created by blinding and numbing
sunlight, all colours scrubbed clean-
er and brighter and the air too hot to
breathe. As I read L’etranger – usually
translated as either The Stranger or The
Outsider – a similar atmosphere ap-
peared to surround me, created by Al-
bert Camus to accompany his ‘stranger’
through the absurd trap lying in wait
from the very first page.
A man – surname Meursault – notes
the death of his mother with the words
“Aujoud’ hui, maman est mort. Ou peut
etre hier, je ne sais pas” – something
like “Today, mother is dead. Or it could
be yesterday, I’m not sure” – in these fa-
mous opening lines.
The man’s detachment only becomes
more evident as the novel progresses.
His life is lived through an intense ap-
preciation of what might be called life’s
simple pleasures: watching the progres-
sion and procession of an entire after-
noon from his window, desiring his girl-
friend when she wears a read and white
striped dress or swimming in the waves
on a sultry day. He is not unappreciative
of company but rather seems able to de-
rive only a very superficial feeling from
it; this is more than sufficient for him.
In many ways, he could be described
– and I imagine a Daily Mail headline
would – as cold and soulless… in short,
a stranger to ‘normal’ human feeling – a
devil.
Meursault’s powers of observation are
immense; he takes careful and precise
notice of his surroudings and actions,
often noting bizarre occurrences of hu-
man behaviour. He also tries to under-
stand himself and his motivations, how-
ever simple they may appear to us. Most
Eva Rosenthal
Books editor
Chortle Festival
Comes to London
The British comedy website Chortle has announced
its first comedy book festival – which will take place
in Ealing at the end of this month. The festival will
open with a stand up gala in Ealing Town Hall, fea-
turing hit comedians including Richard Herring and
Shappi Khorsandi. This opening event will be hosted
by Logan Murray, known for his appearances in TV
shows such as Peep Show, Packet of Three and Pebble
Mill.
Other events include Robert Finn’s talk on how to
turn debut novels into bestsellers and Rob Newman’s
discussion on the trade secrets of Elizibethan Eng-
land. Imperial alumnus Dr Simon Singh will present
a lecture about the mathematical secrets of Matt
Groening’s hit TV shows The Simpsons and Futur-
ama. Jack Whitehall, star of hit shows Fresh Meat
and Bad Education, will also join his father to discuss
their recently released book Him & Me – which ex-
plores their unusual family relationship.
Tickets range in price from £5 to £20 per event and
places are limited so interested people are interested
to book early.
For more information and to buy tickets for the indi-
vidual events visit comedybookfest.com .
Flash Fiction
by Laurence Pope
The King watches his empire crumble un-
der a tide of darkness. Ivory towers toppled,
holy men slain. His fair Queen, crushed un-
der mighty hooves. Cornered and alone he
throws down his crown. Checkmate.
Jack and Michael Whitehall
interesting to me however, is the com-
plete lack of judgement he demonstrates
towards the choices made by others,
something which resonates especially
in the currently fashionable ‘non-judge-
mental’ trend of allowing people to live
their lives – to a certain extent – as they
want.
On a day of glaring sunlight, walking
along a beach, the ‘stranger’ enters a
semi-delirious state and with the even-
ing coming on, shoots and kills a name-
less, although menacing, man. Then, for
no apparent reason, he shoots a further
four bullets into the dead man’s body.
Meursault is subsequently jailed, under-
standably.
His trial however, is an absurd night-
mare, that proceeds in any case, with a
sense of the utmost normalcy.
The prosecutor, who initially likes
Meursault, takes a sudden and very per-
sonal aversion to the ‘stranger’s’ disbelief
in God. From then onwards, Meursault’s
destiny – the guillotine – becomes en-
trenched. The courthouse is merely a
zoo and Meursault an encaged animal,
judged mostly on the lack of emotion he
showed at his mother’s funeral.
It is moreover an incredibly human
and moving. The last four pages espe-
L’etranger for the centenary of Camus’ birth
Albert Camus with accompanying non-PC cigarette
cially, read like the explosion into light
of a human brain. Meursault’s accept-
ance of his fate and of the absurdity of
all human life and relationships is con-
densed into these truly powerful pages.
His life, or rather his death, is a certainty
and there is nothing left to do but take
pleasure from the warm summer night
and the stars, open for the “first time
to the tender indifference of the world”
(loosely translated from “je m’ouvrais
pour la premiere fois a la tendre indif-
ference du monde”).
L’etranger is a book that tilts our un-
derstanding of human souls and their
myriad forms, of the way in which we
are unable to accept anything beyond
our narrow view of the world. Meursault
– a stranger in his society – is cold by
some measure. But what meausure are
we using? Who are we to judge? In 2013
it seems adequate to pose these ques-
tions. I think Camus poses these and
many, and more complex, questions in
his L’etranger.
L’etranger by Albert Camus, Editions Gal-
limard 1942
The Outsider by Albert Camus in a new
translation by Sandra Smith, Penguin
Classics 2013

