16 FRIDAY 08 NOV
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
AMS album of the week
DespiteitbeingovertenyearssinceAFfirst
burnt music onto a CD to hand out at a small
local gig in their Montreal neighbourhood,
they are still teenagers – full of fire, angst,
beauty and surprising lyricism. They have
been almost alone in crafting albums which
havealottosaywithoutfallingintothedread-
ed ‘concept album’ trap. Their first offering,
Funeral, is a masterpiece of tension and strife
between generations, Neon Bible is a biting
criticismofmoderndayreligionandTheSub-
urbsisanexplorationofthehopelesslygreyareasthatliebetweentheurbanandrural
extremes. But the crucial thing is they needn’t be, it’s the music and not the ideas that
keep you hooked. They have developed a sound that can span genres and yet still be
solidlyAF,andneverhasthisbeenmoreevidentthanontheirfourth:REFLEKTOR.
ThefirstimpressivethingaboutREFLEKTORisthatitliveduptoitsenormoushype.
NME have called AF ‘the most important band of the decade’ and I feel a strong per-
sonal attachment to their music, they’re certainly my favourite active band. Despite
this,forthepastweekmyhousemateshavebeenslowlygoingmadasIhaveitblaring
out of my room on perpetual repeat, so they have clearly delivered. The second is the
sheer scope of the album’s music – funky synth pop, dub, straight out rock’n’roll and
more traditional AF styles all woven together with that sound, and a very new, much
moreelectronicandgrippingbasssection.
The album opens with the only single, ‘REFLEKTOR’, a seven and bit minute long,
infectious and subtle attack on online personas and digital relationships. Featuring
a stuttering sax solo, beautiful harmonies and backing vocals by David Bowie (who
threatenedtostealthesingle,itwassogood!)thealbumstartswellandstaysthatway.
Highlights include the entire album. Personal favourites however are ‘Flashbulb Eyes’,
withitsdubbyvibesandterrorthatourobsessionwithdocumentingourlivesthrough
photographshastakenthespiritoutofthings,and‘NormalPerson’whichisbasicallya
mockingrockballadaboutnormalityandourendlesssearchforit.Itshouldbesoaw-
fullyclichédbutinsteaditendsupbeingreally,reallygood.REFLEKTORiscertainlythe
most danceable AF album to date, but doesn’t lose any of its soul – it’s more a natural
evolutionforabandnotafraidtoexplore.IfIwasforcedtofindacriticismitwouldbe
the sad decrease of Régine Chassagne’s vocal contribution – she still provides power-
ful harmonies and compliments Win’s voice beautifully, but there’s no stand out vocal
performancefromherlikeHaitiorSprawlII.
Stillit’sprobablythebestalbumoftheyear,golistentoit.
Arcade Fire - Reflektor
Stuart Masson
Do you enjoy having such a
reputation?
No, but it is the way we are.
Generally speaking, it’s a good thing in
terms of the atmosphere it engenders,
but occasionally it becomes a bit of
a problem. You just have to have the
knowledgeandexperiencetodealwith
that problem, to understand when it
becomes a bit boring. We had a show
in Sydney about four years ago where
this guy kept shouting the same shit all
the time and we kept humouring him
and taking the piss out of him. A lot of
the people in the crowd enjoyed it, but
if you’re a long way back in the crowd,
it’s difficult to hear what the heckler’s
saying, so you’re only hearing one half
of the conversation. That isn’t always
apparent to the people on stage, so you
need to be aware that the experience
for everybody in the audience is not
as hilarious as for those at the front,
and when people have paid to come
and see you, the emphasis is on
entertaining them first and foremost.
You often drop a few mclusky tracks
into your Future of the Left sets. Is
that because you still enjoy playing
the songs or is just a treat for the
fans?
Yeah, I mean they’re really easy to
play and they’re really good fun and I
wrote them, so it would a shame not
to hear those songs again. Particularly
To Hell with Good Intentions and
Lightsabre Cocksucking Blues, they
really are the easiest songs to play ever
written and I love playing them. What
is actually quite flattering is that people
a lot of people enjoy those songs. What
is a bit sad is when the biggest reaction
of the night is to those songs, and that
happens sometimes. But yeah, we like
playing them.
Finally, ever since I first heard
Robocop 4 – Fuck Off Robocop, I’ve
always wanted to ask you, what’s
your favourite film?
I’ve got a few, but probably, if it had to
be one, probably Dr Strangelove. I love
Blazing Saddles, that’s probably the
best out and out comedy. So yeah, Dr
Strangelove, that’s my favourite film.
Future of the Left’s new album - How
To Stop Your Brain In An Accident,
was released on October 28th via
Prescriptions
Embarrasments or Riches?
Riaz Agahi examines a few new(ish) releases
Sergio Sorrentino &
Machinefabriek
Vignettes
Autodidactic Dutch graphic
artist – turned sound artist Ma-
chinefabriek recently added to
his prolofic 2013 output with this
effort, a collaboration with Sergio
Sorrentino, an Italian avante-garde
guitarist considered to be one of the
best modern Italian guitarists. From
an early age he showed a precocious
brilliance, performing in a tonne of
places in his native country, and has
gradually amassed a large amount of
acclaim for his work, which, it should
be said is more Oren Ambarchi than
Sir Richard Bishop.
The album as a whole reminds me
of the high point of Machinefabriek’s
2012 album Color Tones a 12 minute
track called Mosaic, which culmi-
nates in a wonderfully relaxing and
evocative guitar part. In a way, with
Sorrentino’s able assistance, Machine-
fabriek has distilled the beauty of this
moment into an entire album, backed
up by a suitable sense of dread, remi-
niscient of Svarte Greiner’s release of
this year, Black Tie.
If I were to describe Sorrentino’s
guitar work in 2 words I would say:
natural harmonics. I can totally un-
derstand why as well, as they possess
a subtlety that a notew often can’t
muster and it’s a tool I’ve used end-
lessly in my own exploration of bass
guitar.
The album is one of those albums
that flows as one piece, with an ele-
ment at the end of each track usher-
ing in the next. The electronic drone
style sounds from Machinefabriek’s
synth work extend notes beyond
their expected length, giving a sort of
disorienting effect which maximises
the dynamics of the piece.
The only real problem I can
think of is that never really explodes,
but to change that would ruin its
subtlety.
Huntsville
Past Increasing, Future
Receding
Huntsville are one of the many
Norwegian bands such as Puma, who
fall into the ‘jazz’ category which for
my money is always a rather dismiss-
ive label to put on these normally very
eclectic artists, so for the purpose of
this review I am going to defy Occam’s
razor and instead call them ‘ambient
free-jazz-folk.’
This is their second album since
moving from ubiquitous Norwegian
jazz label Rune Grammofon to Hubro
and much like their other albums
consists of a small number of long
tracks, in this case 3 tracks totalling
40 minutes. I always feel like this is a
brave format for such a short album,
because in a 40 minute punk album,
for example, you can afford to throw
a few crap songs in and no one will
notice.
The opener, Presence in Absence,
starts with some rather ominous, puls-
ing, ethereal tones which are uncer-
emonously eclipsed by a loud clatter
from the drums, recalling in a way the
dynamic brilliance of Emptyset. At 17
minutes, it’s rather a slow burner, and
gradually adds layers over the course
of the track as the timbre slowly
thickens. Very melodic guitar work
gives the track a meandering feel until
it gradually decays, interesting, though
is how each instrument has a moment
where it leads the track.
‘The Flow of Sand’ is possibly my
favourite, as it evolves over a slightly
distorted repetitive bassline, like a
darker, less groovy Fire! Really what
we have is 3 interesting studies in
drone, which evolve slowly by varying
the elements involved and the more
expressive elements, like the guitar,
seem to guide a change in mood.
While the album’s great, there’s a
certain sense of no end product, but
any Huntsville – or indeed free jazz
fan, will know to enjoy the journey.
Joachim Nordwall
Soul Music
This album has the potential to be
one of my favourites of the year, and its
quality is backed up by its recent place
in Wire’s latest office ambience, one of
the biggest accolades in my opinion.
Having said that, it’s certainly the big-
gest misnomer of the year. Those in
search of soul music should probably
scurry back to their Motown collection
as there’s not much to enjoy here.
What it does have, is Joachim
Nordwall of The Skull Defekts fame
blasting out some music that I would
describe as the lounge-music in purga-
tory. It’s not a huge departure from
his previous work, and indeed final
track Psychic Propaganda is actually
a re-edit of last year’s EP, showing a
connection between it and this work,
which actually has a thicker timbre by
comparison.
If this is Dante’s Inferno, then
the album’s equivalent of Virgil is the
percussion, provided by Jean-Louis
Huhta, also from The Skull Defekts.
The percussion is really the central
theme of the album, one that hypno-
tises and creates something of a trance
like state, but in a much more muted
and eerie way than the electronic
genre.
The relation between this album
and dance music definitely does hold
water though, particularly in tracks
like ‘Soul Vibration’ or the very ap-
propriately titled ‘Acid Ritual,’ where
Nordwall’s synth work recalls acid
house. In fact, ‘Acid Ritual’ would be
a great alternative title for the album,
particularly given the dark ritualistic
vibe that Nordwall produces through-
out.
It reminds me a little of EVOL’s
Proper Headshrinker, an album that
it sounds nothing like but which, like
Soul Music, presents the traditions of
electronic music in a very abstract and
unfamiliar way.

