18 FRIDAY 08 NOV
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Only Tilda and Tom left alive
Over the past few years we have sadly
seen studios satisfy audiences’ need
for film escapism with story-driven
fantasy action (comic book films be-
ing the biggest example) while staying
away from science fiction. Even sci-fi
staples like Star Trek -whose writers
Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci are
involved in this project- haven’t been
spared and have been turned into en-
tertaining but nonetheless seat-rum-
bling blockbusters.
After decades in development
(young Anakin Jake Lloyd was consid-
ered for the role of ten year old Ender),
I had some hope that an adaptation
of the popular novel Ender’s Game
would inject some much needed sci-
fi into blockbusters. But when I saw
that Gavin Hood, director of the ter-
rible X-Men Origins: Wolverine, was
directing that hope turned to fear that
a very good novel would be ruined. In
The endgame
the end, Ender’s Game does neither.
After an attack on Earth by an ant-
like alien species called formics is very
narrowly defeated, humanity decides
to prepare itself from a future attack
by sending its best and brightest chil-
dren to Battle School, a space station
where they are groomed by Colonel
Graff (Ford, with his usual geriatric
grumpiness) to become the army of
the future. The best and brightest of
them all is Ender Wiggin (Butter-
field), but he is troubled by his violent
impulses.
In a way, Ender’s Game is similar to
the first Harry Potter film -Harry Pot-
ter and the Philosopher’s Stone-, up
to dodgy lines and suspect acting by
some of the supporting child actors.
The film’s appeal is exploring with
the main character the possibilities in
the new world he is in, much like the
best part of GTA is seeing if you can
kill sharks with grenades. When we
first enter space we see blobs of sick
floating around in zero gravity. In Bat-
tle School the students are trained by
playing a sort of zero gravity paintball
in which limbs that get hit are ren-
dered immobile, so we see the stu-
dents try different strategies of dubi-
ous real world application.
The film leaves behind much of the
discussion on war and the use of vio-
lence, and all of the political backdrop
from the book, to become a film about
children bouncing around in space.
But if we judge it as that it is a very
entertaining and well made film. It all
escalates to a much bigger third act
that packs a lot of punch, and leaves
with a last scene that satisfies the
viewers’ need for closure but still sets
up the possibility of a sequel.
Ender’s Game
Director: Gavin Hood
Writers: Gavin Hood, Orson Scott
Card (novel)
Starring: Harrison Ford, Asa
Butterfield, Hailee Steinfeld, Abigail
Breslin, Viola Davis, Ben Kingsley
Runtime: 114 minutes
Certificate: 12A
Michael S. Martin
Star Writer
Only Lovers Left
Alive
Director: Jim Jarmusch
Writers: Jim Jarmusch
Starring: Tom Hiddleston, Tilda
Swinton, Mia Wasikowska, John
Hurt, Anton Yelchin, Jeffrey Wright
Runtime: 123 minutes
Fred Fyles
Star Writer
The veteran American actor Mar-
tin Mull once said ‘a cult following is
a nice way of saying very few people
like you’. Perhaps this is a worrying
thought for legendary independent
director Jim Jarmusch, whose latest
feature film Only Lovers Left Alive has
been chosen to headline the ‘Cult’ sec-
tion of the London Film Festival’s pro-
gramme. The components that make
up the film - existential crises, noc-
turnal wanderings, and fetishisation
of all things vintage - make it sound
a bit like some kind of obnoxious arts
student’s final project; they’ve read a
bit of Satre, seen A Bout de Souffle a
couple of times, and now can’t wait to
show the world how achingly hip they
are. However, despite some hipster-
esque pretentions, Jarmusch’s light
touch and shades of black humour
make this film incredibly entertaining.
Described by Jarmusch as a ‘crypto-
vampire love story’, Only Lovers Left
Alive focuses on the relationship be-
tween Adam and Eve, a pair of aging
vampires played by Tom Hiddleston
and Tilda Swinton. Drifting through
the streets of romantic Tangiers and
heart-breakingly desolate Detroit like
wandering stars, they come together
for night-time drives, ruminations
on the banality of modern life, and
trips to a local hospital to ensure their
supply of ‘pure O negative’ doesn’t
run dry. Their peaceful cohabitation
is momentarily interrupted when
Eve’s sister Ava joins them, played to
bratty perfection by rising star Mia
Wasikowska, but this forms a small
blip on their introspective existence.
In fact, without this upset there would
be very little to drive the plot along;
despite great performances from John
Hurt as fellow vampire Christopher
Marlowe and Anton Yelchin as Ian,
Adam’s only friend from the human
world, Only Lovers Left Alive is essen-
tially a duologue between the central
characters.
The fact that Adam makes his living
as a secretive musician, creating songs
on antique recording equipment,
fits in nicely with the film’s brilliant
soundtrack, which won accolades
at Cannes. Masterminded by Dutch
composer Jozef van Wissem, and fea-
turing the electronic/experimental/
avant-garde darling Zola Jesus, the an-
tics of Adam and Eve are accompanied
by an eclectic range of sounds that
range from the mid-century Motown
that made Detroit famous, to middle
eastern sounding string music, to epic
post-rock soundscapes. Jarmusch’s
soundtracks are always a delight, but
with this film he has outdone him-
self, curating a breathtakingly brilliant
playlist.
However, despite holding strong
in most other regards, it is the script
that somewhat lets the film down.
Jarmusch, who wrote the screenplay,
has an obsession with name-dropping
famous poets, artists, and musicians
the two main characters have known
over their long life; it seems that there
wasn’t a single person of note from the
last two centuries who didn’t have the
pleasure of Adam and Eve’s company
- from Byron and Shelley, to Poe and
the aforementioned Marlowe. There
is one particularly painful scene where
Adam drives Eve past Jack White’s for-
mer house in Detroit, and they both
wax lyrically about how much they
love him.
Although this habit does make the
film seem a bit like an exercise in pre-
tension, the wonderful humourous
moments scattered throughout the
film - most notably a star turn for Jef-
frey Wright as the phlebotomist ‘Dr
Watson’, who supplies Adam his blood
with a side order of sardonic coolness
- tip the balance in Jarmusch’s favour,
preventing things from getting too
heavy.
Swinton is, as ever, a magnificent
presence on the screen. With her
piercing gaze and startling appear-
ance, she is an obvious choice to play
Eve - in every scene she is in she man-
ages to quietly steal the show, stealth-
ily drawing attention towards herself
like a black hole. With standout roles
in a huge range of films - from Lynne
Ramsay’s devastating We Need to Talk
About Kevin to Tony Gilroy’s thriller
Michael Clayton - I feel like I can say,
without risk of hyperbole, that Swin-
ton is one of the most versatile and
talented actors of our time. On a side
note, it is incredibly refreshing to see
- in an industry where actresses peak
at the age of 30 - a film in which the
romance is played out between an
older woman and a younger man.
Within Hollywood there is a tendency
for the leading man to engage in a re-
lationship with a woman who is no-
tably younger; I call this the ‘Woody
Allen Effect’, after arguably the worst
offender, whose films regularly fea-
ture him as the protagonist in a rela-
tionship with women up to 30 years
his junior. In Only Lovers Left Alive
the age difference between the pro-
tagonists isn’t seen as a major factor
(they are immortal after all), making
it a seem like a breath of fresh air in a
largely patriarchal industry.
The cinematography in the film is
sublime, with Detroit and Tangiers
captured in long, languid shots; while
it could easily be classed as ‘ruin porn’,
the burned out remains of Detroit
form a beautiful backdrop for this
unconventional love story. These im-
ages, combined with the wonderful
soundtrack and the magnetic cast of
Swinton and her bright young things,
add up to make a film that is almost
achingly cool. Literally dripping in
ennui, Only Lovers Left Alive is a film
that will appeal to both hardcore
cinephiles and casual viewers alike. A
cult film? Certainly. An unlikable one?
Not a chance.
Entertainment Weekly
www.themovies.co.za

