19
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 08 NOV
FILM
Thor: The Dark
World
Director: Alan Taylor
Writers: Christopher Yost,
Christopher Markus, Stephen
McFeely
Starring: Chris Hemsworth, Natalie
Portman, Anthony Hopkins, Tom
Hiddleston, Christopher Eccleston,
Idris Elba, Jaimie Alexander, Ray
Stevenson, Zachary Levi, Kat
Dennings, Stellan Skarsgård,
Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje
Runtime: 120 minutes
Certification: 12A
Jack Steadman
Writer
The return of the Australian Norse god
Phase 2 of Marvel’s grand scheme to
take over the world (sorry, “make re-
ally good movies”) continues apace
with this, the second entry in the se-
ries about everyone’s second-favourite
Norse god (if you’re about to tell me
Loki isn’t your favourite, I’m going to
stop you there and tell you you’re a re-
ally bad liar). With Game of Thrones
director Alan Taylor taking over the
reins from Kenneth Branagh, it seems
reasonable to expect things to take a
darker, grimier tone than the rather
camp, light-hearted original and, well,
they do.
After the standard opening mono-
logue from Odin (Anthony Hopkins),
events instantly launch into a full-
scale battle (one of many), which looks
far prettier than it has any right to be,
considering it takes place in a world
quite literally entitled The Dark World
(why yes, it is that Dark World from
the title, however did you guess). This
grimy yet weirdly pretty quality seeps
through the entire film – Asgard is
absolutely beautiful, and the FX are
second to none (the 3D’s even kind of
good, in that ‘doesn’t quite justify the
extra price of entry but still looks nice’
way). The design of the Dark Elves
feels a bit generic (although their ship
interiors bear more than a few simi-
larities to the feel of the Xenomorphs
from Alien, which gives them bonus
creepiness), but since the focus is less
on them and more on the action, it’s
not a major issue.
Speaking of the action (of which
there is a lot), it’s just as good as any-
thing that’s come before in the Marvel
film universe, and in some cases goes
on to better it. It’s as quippy as you’d
expect from a Marvel film (as evi-
denced within the first two minutes of
Thor’s (Chris Hemsworth) introduc-
tory fight), but it also ranges from the
large-scale battles that echo those in
Avengers Assemble to epic one-on-
ones, including both a barnstorming
action sequence on the Dark World
and the finale, a inter-dimensional
battle between Thor and Malekith
(Chris Eccleston) that consistently
wrong-foots everyone involved, from
the participants to the audience (and
is all the more fantastic for it).
The twisty-turny nature of the finale
is representative of the plot as a whole
– there’s a lot going on here, and while
it’s not exactly difficult to follow it can
mean that the two major, surprisingly
powerful emotional sequences feel
a little weakened. On the flip-side:
much more time spent on them would
have dragged the film down into an
over-long, intolerable mess, so taking
it as it is is definitely the better option
here.
Of course, all this prettiness and de-
lightful plot would count for naught
were the actors completely useless,
and that’s definitely not the case here.
Hemsworth is as comfortable with
Mjolnir as he’s ever been, Tom Hid-
dleston is the undeniable highlight as
Imperial Cinema
As a special Post-Grad Film Night
we’re showing the critically ac-
claimed coming-of-age drama Mud.
With echoes of the Adventures of
Huckleberry Finn it tells the story of
two teenage boys in rural Arkansas
who meet and help a reclusive fugi-
tive called Mud (Matthew McCo-
naughey) who is hiding out in hope
of a reunion with an ex girlfriend
called Juniper (Reese Witherspoon).
As the travails of adolescence ensue,
the two boys clash with Mud and
learn about the hardships of family,
love and the loss of innocence.
Kick-Ass 2 is the acid-tongued
sequel to the raucous comic book
movie send-up. The semi-retired
eponymous hero (Aaron Taylor-
Johnson) decides to return to his
crime fighting ways by training
with Hit-Girl. In other news, Chris
D’Amico aka the guy who plays
McLovin. commits matricide and
decides to reinvent himself as su-
pervillain: the Motherfucker.
The Motherfucker assembles a
gang of badman supervillains who
go on a rampage of policeman de-
capitation and twitter bullying.
Nerdy Kick-Ass and Hit Girl have
their work cut out if they want
any chance of taking down The
Motherfucker!
Mud-11th of November at 19:00
Tickets: £5 online imperialcollege-
union.org/node/3970 or £6 on the
door, includes a free ice-cream or
bag of popcorn.
Kick-Ass 2- 12th November at
19:00, 14th November at 19:00 Tick-
ets: £3 members/£4 Non-Members
These will be our final set of
screenings this term before our
legendary all-nighter in Decem-
ber (check out our website https://
union.ic.ac.uk/arts/cinema/ in the
near future for more deets)
Here is a link to Imperial Cinema
membership imperialcollegeunion.
org/?q=node%2F2969, it’s £5 for a
year and guarantees you cheaper
films all year! First film is free!
Next time: Cinema All-Nighter!
the wise-cracking Loki (who provides
the vast majority of laughs throughout
the film, despite only appearing in less
than half), and the supporting cast
give as good as they can with predom-
inantly limited screen-time (particu-
larly for the Lady Sif and the Warriors
Three, who appear even less than they
did the first time). Chris Eccleston
feels a little wasted as Malekith con-
sidering he spends most of his time
just making strange noises, though, as
does Natalie Portman when her role is
mostly reduced to damsel-in-distress
replete with bonus sarky assistant (Kat
Dennings, still fantastic).
There are plenty of additional
treats throughout the film – from
one completely predictable cameo to
one (hilarious) surprise one – and it’s
definitely another Marvel film that de-
mands a rewatch just to fully appreci-
ate it all. A couple of plot points do go
missing in action (namely the poten-
tial for a Sif-Thor-Jane love triangle),
but on the whole it’s all wrapped up
nicely in one of the year’s best films.
As for the stings: well, see them for
yourself. There are two, after all…
Dame Judi’s finest hour
Philomena
Director: Stephen Frears
Writers: Stephen Frears, Jeff Pope,
Martin Sixsmith (novel)
Starring: Judi Dench, Steve Coogan
Runtime: 98 minutes
Certificate: 12A
John Park
Film Editor
Stephen Frears’ latest “inspired by a
true story” drama is a rousing crowd-
pleaser that will make you cry and
laugh throughout with its extraordi-
nary retelling of what started off as a
horrifying event. A child is torn away
from his mother, and for 50 long years
she has kept this a secret, ashamed of
such past, stemming from her long-
running faith in the Catholic Church.
She finally gathers up the courage to
share this painful information, which
leads to a desperate search for her
long-lost son who she knows nothing
about, but who she has never stopped
thinking of.
Philomena Lee (Judi Dench) is one
of many women who were sent off to
an Irish convent to spend their youth-
ful years working almost like slaves
under the fierce command of harsh,
strict nuns. A pregnancy out of wed-
lock and a forced adoption abroad
is her “human-interest” story, and
helping her tell this is disgraced ex-
BBC correspondent Martin Sixsmith
(Steve Coogan). Together Philomena
and Martin strike up the unlikeliest
friendship in search for a boy they
only know as Anthony.
And so starts the thoroughly enter-
taining journey that eventually takes
them across the Atlantic to the States
where the two outstanding perfor-
mances of the film’s leads are put to
tremendous use. Dench’s heart-break-
ing portrayal is without doubt the
highlight, and so are the outrageous-
ly hysterical one-liners Philomena
comes up with, said in all seriousness
without actually trying to be funny.
We saw Dame Maggie Smith drop the
f-bomb in last year’s Quartet. Here
Dame Judi Dench drops a “c” one...not
THE C-word...but something close.
With her incredibly sweet and moving
performance, Dench is an unstoppa-
ble powerhouse breaking your heart
with her every glance.
Her travel companion Coogan is
equally as effective, providing the
complete opposite of the God-re-
specting, very courteous, socially
unaware grandmother. Together they
enter deep discussions about religion,
sex, among others, and it’s an on-
screen pairing that is never boring.
Sixsmith at first isn’t all that invested
in the story: it’s something he does
instead of writing books about Rus-
sian history he knows no one will read
now that he’s unemployed. And yes
they have their differences, most obvi-
ously so when it comes to discussing
God, but as time goes by he warms to
her view of the world, and is clearly
drawn more and more to help her find
closure.
There are many unexpected turns
the film takes, none of them an un-
believable development, but ones
that amount to something a lot more
poignant and thought-provoking.
Tears will flow as Dench dominates
the screen with never-ending warmth,
and when there is sadness there will be
as many moments of laughter, and it’s
this delicate balance that gives the film
its endless likability, one that is never
forced, but instead charms with its
gentle, genuine storytelling.
screenrush.com

