2
EDITOR’S PICKS
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: More from teh Lolcat editor
Erratum
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
FRIDAY 08 NOV
Hey, so last week we had errors in our erratum. We’re sorry. This week we’re
bound to have some more. If you find some errors, want to complain or just
want to have your name on non-printer paper, why not send in a letter to
felix@imperial.ac.uk?
COMMENT
Fracking vs Science
Comminication
What is fracking?
Kenya: What is Next?
What’s happening to Kenya
in the future?
Film makes predictions about
the Oscars Best Supporting
Actors awards
Oscars
FILM
Explore the life of Albert Camus
Camus
BOOKS
Guess what, we’ve got a new
comic strip! Say hello to Plug-
time!
Plugtime
COMIC
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Nida Mahmud, Philippa Skett, Aemun Reza Features Editors VACANT Business Editor James Tsim Science Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor
Kartikeya Rana Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna Sorba Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon
Hunter, Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson, William Stocker Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film Editor John Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene, Imran Rashid Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl,
Yong Wen Chua, Osama Arawa Travel Editor Chris Richardson Sports Editors Kunal Wagle Emergency Editors Philippa Skett, Ravi Pall, Rory Fenton Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles
Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Lord and Lady of the Copy Stephen Ball and Annina Sartor Copy Editors Alexandra Hamilton, Thomas Heaven, Mattin Mir-Tahmasebi, Tom Rivlin, Aislinn Hayes
A
group of academics at
Imperial have created a
tool that is able to rank
the most influential
speakers on any topic.
This is achieved by scoring the users
of Twittter; it is known as the T-index
and is dependent on many times they
post and are retweeted. The T-index
is defined separately for each topic
of interest. A high score is achieved
when the user is well known and when
they have been tweeted often.
It is hoped the T-index will help
advertising companies, political
groups and digital agencies to
ascertain who the most influential
people are on social media.
The tool was launched by sharing
the ’10 most influential tweeters’ on
five different subjects. The analysis
has been done on topics such as
Manchester United and David
Cameron.
The team who created it would
like to expand the project so that
any person can search who the most
influential speakers are on any subject
by themselves.
The Director of the Institute of
Global Health Innovation at Imperial,
Professor Lord Ara Darzi, stated: “‘We
first became interested in measuring
influence in social media during the
recent reforms in the health service,
when it became clear that Twitter
had become an important forum
for discussions about the changes.
We wanted to find some way of
determining how influential different
individuals were who were tweeting
about the reforms and published a
research article detailing our findings.
“We then realised this metric could
be more widely used across Twitter to
measure key influencers in any topic
from fashion brands, to public events
to major geopolitical events. The
results we’re getting from the topics
we’ve analysed so far are fascinating,
and certainly tell us more than existing
metrics of influence currently in use.”
Dr Dominic King, a lecturer at
Imperial commented that “There
are lots of companies that measure
influence on Twitter, but they usually
don’t tell you how they do it. They also
focus on the individual rather than a
topic.”
“The T-index is a simple, transparent
score that measures how influential
someone is based on the quality and
quantity of their output on a specific
subject. The method is open to
everyone, so people can discuss how
useful it is as a metric.
“The results show that bloggers
and independent voices can have
their messages disseminated to a
wider audience than established
news providers. For tweets about
David Cameron, Marcus Chown and
Chunky Mark have higher T-indexes
than established media providers like
the Guardian and Daily Mirror.
“We also provide information on
the most popular tweets overall about
each topic. These are almost always
from celebrities such as Stephen
Fry, Lady Gaga or members of One
Direction. But while one tweet about a
topic may stimulate a peak of interest,
it’s likely to be short-term. The T-index
measures sustained influence.”
Nida Mahmud
News Editor
Imperial’s New
Twitter Tool

