22 FRIDAY 08 NOV
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Michael Fassbender (12 Years a Slave)
It’s a shocking but true fact that Mi-
chael Fassbender has never been nom-
inated for an Oscar. Ever. Not even
for Shame. That’s right. So this really
should be his year to shine...right? His
ruthless, pure-evil, malicious inter-
pretation of the worst slave owner
you’ll ever come across is frighten-
ingly convincing, and his unhinged
performance is compelling through-
out. Once again, his performance isn’t
something you’d feel comfortable sit-
ting through to watch, but even that
taboo subject of slavery shouldn’t de-
ter a nomination at this year’s race.
Barkhad Abdi (Captain Phillips)
Everyone thought they would be im-
pressed by Tom Hanks. And they
were. But making an even bigger
impact in this thriller that finds an
American container ship boarded by
armed Somalian pirates was Barkhad
Abdi, a first-time actor. It’s the deadly
intensity in his eyes that scares at first,
but it’s also the surprisingly humane
side to his lead pirate character that
he brings out that paints an interest-
ing aspect of his role that could have
been simpler and dumbed down. Abdi
should definitely brace himself for a
whole horde of nominations.
Jared Leto (Dallas Buyers Club)
Playing a transgender character is
no easy job for any actor, but word
is, Jared Leto (who lost 30 pounds
for the role) gives quite the sensa-
tional performance of this year. He
was awarded the Breakthrough Actor
Award at the Hollywood Film Awards
(perhaps slightly insulting given how
long he’s been successfully around in
the industry), but an Oscar campaign
must surely be well underway. She’s a
seemingly street-smart, HIV-positive
prostitute, although she too must have
a story or two to tell given her actual
vulnerability and insecurity.
Tom Hanks (Saving Mr Banks)
The film marks the first time Walt
Disney has ever been played on the big
screens. And who better to play such
an icon than Tom Hanks, who shows
he’s not only good at saving Private
Ryan but also Mr Banks in an attempt
to bring Mary Poppins the novel to
the movie theatres? As Walt, he is the
friendliest boss you’ll ever find on this
planet, and as his easy-going Ameri-
can way clashes with the more tradi-
tional and uptight English methods of
Mrs Travers, the book’s author, much
hilarity ensues, with Hanks being an
integral part of the pair.
December is just around the corner,
and film studios are lining up their
critically-lauded films to take part
in this year’s much-anticipated Os-
car race. As with any year, there are
strong contenders in every field and
it’s certainly too early to be betting on
a winner.
So over the next few weeks, Felix
Film will be giving you a breakdown of
the actors, actresses and films that will
be grabbing the headlines in the near
future; but this is in no way a definitive
list, as some of the films haven’t even
been released over here yet.
This week in our feature is the Best
Supporting Actor category.
Ready...
Steady...
Go!
2014 at the Oscars: B

