23
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 08 NOV
FILM
Best Supporting Actor
James Franco (Spring Breakers)
Remember that film that no one saw
and was hated by the very few that
did see it? Harmony Korine’s Spring
Breakers is certainly a tricky one to
come to grips with, something that
requires patience and a completely
different level of expectations from
the action-packed, girl-power film it
promises to be. But something that
cannot be faulted is James Franco’s ec-
centric supporting turn, which alone
makes the movie worth seeing. His
tattooed, dreadlocked, fake-toothed
appearance is a shocker, and the acting
that goes with it is remarkable.
Sam Rockwell (The Way, Way Back)
With dialogue such as “You see what
I did there? I manipulated her with
my sexual charisma”, the sleazy-look-
ing Sam Rockwell is full of hilarious
one-liners, as he runs a summer wa-
ter-park in this heartwarming indie
comedy. His supporting turn is an
absolute triumph in a film that boasts
several top-notch cast members. Sure,
the film was released during summer
as a vacation family movie, but there
should be enough charm and quality
in the coming-of-age story to warrant
some worthy attention and spotlight
his tremendous role.
David Oyelowo (The Butler)
Angry and rebellious, with his im-
pulsive, fiery temper, although never
without a justifiable cause, David Oye-
lowo’s performance is electrifying. As
a black man growing up in a society
that never fully embraces him, it’s only
understandable that he has such a dis-
torted view of the unkind world. The
inevitable conflict that arises between
him and his government-serving fa-
ther is tragic and heartbreaking, and
as one important half of such relation-
ship, Brit actor Oyelowo absolutely
nails it opposite Oscar-winning Forest
Whitaker.
Jake Gyllenhaal (Prisoners)
As a hardworking detective deter-
mined to get to the bottom of a mys-
terious kidnapping case that only
gets more and more complicated as
hidden evidence and the past slowly
start opening up, Gyllenhaal’s at-times
greatly restrained and at-times incred-
ibly intense, moody performance, as
well as that intricate balance between
the two, is a part of what keeps this
150-minute crime drama thriller so
utterly compelling. As he becomes
tired and frustrated, we do too, but the
tough investigative process is made
more relatable thanks to him.
James Gandolfini (Enough Said)
As a plus-sized man with a heart of
gold, the late James Gandolfini’s un-
timely passing makes this grown-up
romantic comedy all the more touch-
ing and poignant. Two divorced adults
in their mid-fifties try their luck once
more with falling in love, although this
time there are other problems that
present themselves between the cou-
ple. Gandolfini delivers the humour-
ous aspect of his character well, and
is a worthy star opposite Julia Louis-
Dreyfus, but it’s the more vulnerable
side of him with his cuddly big heart
that really wins us all over.
Steve Coogan (Philomena)
Possibly the least showy role on the
list, but in keeping with the film’s
general tone, it’s the quieter, more
subdued performance that makes
the most impact, which is what Steve
Coogan brings to the table. There’s
plenty of dry humour for him to play
around with, but ultimately it’s his
chemistry with Judi Dench that makes
the pair’s travelogue so richly dense,
with touching drama and appropri-
ate wit. His character’s transformation
throughout the film is exceptionally
captured by Coogan, who proves his
knack for drama as well.
Matthew McConaughey (Mud)
One of McConaughey’s more serious
roles, where he doesn’t turn on the
cheese or lay on his thick Southern
accent; one to show us what a versa-
tile actor he can really be. As fugitive
on the run, McConaughey possesses
all the right necessary rough edges
to convince, but there is more to his
‘Mud’ character than what you may in-
itially be shown. He’s someone deeply
in love with possibly the wrong wom-
an, and with this comes heartbreak,
unlikely friendship and touching sac-
rifice. Mud was quite the indie critical
hit, so a nomination is possible.
Jeremy Renner (American Hustle)
David O. Russell’s American Hustle is
the kind of film that could be nominat-
ed for all four acting categories next
year. We already discussed Jennifer
Lawrence having the potential to be
a part of the Best Supporting Actress
gang, and with this category, it’s a dif-
ficult choice between Jeremy Renner
and Bradley Cooper. But since Cooper
received plenty of attention last year,
we’re siding with Renner on this one...
for the moment. Donning that ridicu-
lous 1970s retro hairdo for the new
heist film, Renner is one of the most
under-awarded actors around.
Jonah Hill (The Wolf of Wall Street)
Who knew that awkward, insecure kid
from Superbad could be considered as
a contender during awards season and
in particular, the Oscar race? Having
already been nominated once before
for Moneyball, things are starting to
look promising again for Jonah Hill,
who stars in a Martin Scorsese film
that is due to be released in the States
on Christmas Day which is a real dou-
ble whammy when it comes to the
kind of backing you have. Here his role
seems to be more comedic in nature,
which will no doubt work towards his
advantage.
Daniel Brühl (Rush)
Ron Howard’s exhilarating Formula
1 drama benefits hugely from its un-
forgettable race sequences (and lots
of them, too), but when it comes to
selling the biopic part of the film, it’s
the actors who do all the hard work.
As Niki Lauda, Daniel Brühl makes a
memorable figure of the legend. There
is tragedy that surrounds his charac-
ter, one that Brühl plays to the right
level of sensitivity without overdoing
the suffering. It’s a rousing perfor-
mance, one that proudly stands out
even amongst all the more obvious
loud engines and squeaky tires.

