24 FRIDAY 08 NOV
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Nashville: Season 2
It’s country music y’all!
John Park Television Editor
In a battle for the top of the country
charts, let the cat-fights commence
between an older living legend who is
struggling to keep up with the evolv-
ing music industry, and a younger,
fresh-faced new star who is experi-
encing success as a crossover artist be-
tween country and pop to a huge teen-
age fan-base. Rayna James (Connie
Britton) is the older one, Juliet Barnes
(Hayden Panettiere) is the younger
one, and together they headline Nash-
ville, a rather inconsistent soap opera
dressed up all nice and pretty in the
good original soundtrack that tries to
carry the clunky series along.
The focus on the music industry
is the upside of the show. Even for
those not familiar with country mu-
sic, a good mixture set list of both
upbeat, cheerful songs, to the slower
ballads, is enough to win over new
fans. What the characters sing about
are highly limited, as is the case with
the country music genre in general
- driving trucks, drinking beer/whis-
key and love, mostly heartache. The
cast members tasked with singing
a lot of the original songs all handle
them beautifully. Britton and Panet-
tiere both have strong voices as well as
charisma and stage presence in their
flashy music scenes, and it’s certainly
refreshing for a musical drama where
its protagonists don’t randomly break
out into a song-and-dance routine to
throw their worries away. These peo-
ple aren’t misguided, delusional high-
school teens, they seem more like real
individuals with deep-rooted prob-
lems that need addressing.
Contributing to the music scenery
are season 1 characters who make a
welcome comeback, as well as some
new talent that shows promise. Scar-
lett O’Connor (Clare Bowen) and
Gunnar Scott (Sam Palladio) have
broken up; Scarlett is on a potential
road to stardom, having been taken
under Rayna’s wings and her record
label, although the glamorous, pub-
licity-heavy side of the industry is
often too much to handle for a girl
who started out singing in a small cafe
whilst waitressing. Gunnar has been
less lucky: he’s continuing to write
songs although it’s a challenge to get
back on his feet after such heartbreak.
He finds an unlikely ally in Avery Bar-
kley (Jonathan Jackson), Scarlett’s ex,
and the two of them bond over writ-
ing and performing, which provides
an interesting angle on a newly form-
ing bromance. They used to absolutely
hate each other - but it would appear
their new common ground of loving
to perform will bring them closer.
New faces for season 2 include Will
Lexington (Chris Carmack), Gunnar’s
house-mate who could make quite an
impact on the country charts, as long
as he keeps his homosexuality hid-
den and keeps working the ladies on
stage, and Zoey Dalton (Chaley Rose),
Scarlett’s childhood friend who sings
gospel music, who also has the hots
for Gunnar. all have incredible voices
and they only get better as they sing
as duets forming beautiful harmonies.
Let’s not forget about Deacon Clay-
bourne (Charles Esten) who we left
off in the season 1 finale embroiled
in a drunken fight with his on-again,
off-again lover Rayna before getting
involved in a car accident. Rayna was
driving, Deacon was distracting with
her boozy antics which caused the
crash. His hand is badly damaged,
which means he needs to say good-
bye to music career and his extensive
guitar collection. That revelation con-
cerning the paternity of one of Rayna’s
daughters shocks and naturally turns
his world upside down, although he’s
a big enough man to concede that he’s
probably not the best father-figure the
young girl could have.
Rayna’s sister, Tandy Hampton (Ju-
dith Hoag) is also starting to have a
more prominent role in the show, as
her loyalties are tested when it comes
to uncovering the mysteries behind a
a car accident that killed her mother.
Was there foul play? And if so, by
whom?
Juliet thinks she’s got it all - this is
until she gets a dose of her own medi-
cine, as yet another new emerging star
threatens to undermine her success
and credibility as an artist who can
truly appeal to the teen market. The
ever-changing nature of the music
industry, as well as its need to be cut-
throat and ruthless is played out well
through Juliet’s character more in sea-
son 2 than how Rayna’s struggle was
handled in season 1. Layla Grant (Au-
brey Peeples), a runner-up of a singing
competition, seems to be the talking
point of Edgehill Records and its CEO
Jeff Fordham (Oliver Hudson) which
could potentially derail Juliet’s tour
and album sales. Given how much of
a class A maniuplative bitch that she
was back in season 1, you might think
it would be easy to feel no sympathy
for the character. But Juliet has a pain-
ful past to tell, and there are softer
sides to her otherwise driven, ambi-
tious nature which have the tendency
to help you look past her icy persona.
Vulnerability reaches Rayna too, as
the aforementioned car accident that
Deacon was involved in also affects
her. Placed in intensive care, thank-
fully it doesn’t take long for her to
make a comeback, although questions
are raised as to whether she’ll ever be
able to sing live again, with a rousing
answer provided on the excellent clos-
ing scene of episode 5.
As if the show wasn’t crowded
enough, we also get a peek into the
politics of Nashville, Tennessee. Ray-
na’s soon-to-be ex-husband Teddy
Conrad (Eric Close) is now the mayor
determined to run a clean office al-
though there is pressure from Rayna’s
wealthy, powerful father Lamar (the
excellent, excellent, Powers Boothe
whose deep, growly voice is still as
menacing and authoritative as ever) to
do things his way. Along with Teddy
there is a subplot that is headed for
disaster as his girlfriend/mistress
Peggy Kenter (Kimberley Williams-
Paisley) claims that she’s pregnant al-
though she’s clearly not. This tiresome
strand better resolve itself quickly, as
any soapy drama that distracts from
the music is one that needs to quickly
go away.
Speaking of needless drama, the ro-
mantic side of the series is the major
downfall. It’s inevitable that everyone
starts to have feelings for everyone
else, but there is too much moody
sulking around to create any compel-
ling couples to root for. Not everyone
gels as an ensemble at the moment,
and there is an odd lack of narrative
strength and continuity in certain
episodes that makes the show seem
sporadic and its structure, a mess. So
far everyone is pretty much single, but
this will no doubt all change come the
mid-season episodes.
But it’s worth sticking around for
the Britton and Pannettiere duo alone.
Although the two characters aren’t
pitted against each other as much as
you’d hope, even as individuals they
are able to compel and move.

