25
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 08 NOV
TELEVISION
John Park Television Editor
Mom: Season 1
Whoever thought of the casting here
is an absolute genius. Allison Janney
has been away from the tv screens
for far too long after the end of The
West Wing and Anna Faris who over
the years has starred in less than stel-
lar comedy films, finally lands a role
that is worthy of her talent. Bonnie
(Janney) is a recovering addict having
experimented with all sorts of things,
Bonnie’s daughter Christy (Faris)
New CBS Comedy Shows
John Park Television Editor
The Millers: Season
1
John Park Television Editor
The Crazy Ones:
Season 1
ended up as someone similar and is
on a path of the 12-step recovery pro-
gramme, whereas Christy‘s daughter
Violet (Sadie Calvano) reveals that
she’s pregnant with her idiot boy-
friend Luke (Spencer Daniels).
History does seem to repeat itself in
this family, as the three generations of
women who share very similar DNA
work to make the best of their less
than ideal situations. Janney is full of
hilarious one-liners in every single
one of her scenes, Faris does her usual
brilliant work, and together they help
the dark comedy script come to life.
Various issues regarding addiction,
their regrets and past mistakes sur-
face whenever a mother and daughter
pairing takes place, and the snarky
comedy surrounding such issues
mostly works.
No this has nothing to do with the
comedy hit of 2013, We’re the Millers.
With The Millers, a tv series which de-
buted this season, we see Margo Mar-
tindale, who has been shown a lot of
love lately thanks to her remarkable
supporting turns in deadly serious
shows like Justified and The Ameri-
cans, going for a lead role in a comedy
show and mightily succeeding.
The titular Millers refer to a fam-
ily unit made up of the parents Tom
(Beau Bridges) and Carol (Martin-
dale), their children Nathan (Will Ar-
nett) and Debbie (Jayma Mays), Deb-
bie‘s significant other Adam (Nelson
Franklin), as well as their kid Mikayla
(Eve Moon), with Nathan’s colleague
Ray (J. B. Smoove) also popping up
from time to time.
It’s a well-formed cast of familiar
names and faces, and the loud, ener-
getic and appropriately over-the-top
Martindale is a real highlight (leave
it to her to make all the sex jokes),
whereas the more relaxed Bridges
provides the perfect level of disdain
and frustration towards his wife al-
though having depended on her for so
many things, he becomes completely
Robin Williams is a comedy god and
anyone in doubt of his infinite rep-
ertoire and abilities need to check
out his new show. As an advertising
executive running his own company
with his daughter Sydney (Sarah Mi-
chelle Gellar), Simon Roberts is a bit
of a wacky, impulsive, eccentric piece
of work - which is what makes him so
good at his job. His endless creativity,
his crazy ideas (hence the title), as well
as his energy that never runs out, he
does require some reeling in and tam-
ing by his more grounded, sensible
daughter.
Fast-talking, dead-on impressions,
outstanding improvisation, are all
within Williams’ firm grasp of the
show’s comedy material, although
he alone doesn’t hog all the spotlight
when it comes to delivering the gold.
The world’s favourite vampire slayer
is rather good at playing for laughs,
and the rest of the cast, made up of
James Wolk (Mad Men, Political Ani-
mals, Lone Star), Hamish Linklater
(The New Adventures of Old Christine,
The Newsroom), and Amanda Setton
(The Mindy Project, Gossip Girl) are
all excellent.
The show relies heavily on extended
sequences of comedy starting with
It’s far from a silly show that wants
to be offensive for the laughs. In-
stead there are moments of smart
exploration regarding having to bring
up children (Christy has another
kid - a younger son named Roscoe
(Blake Garrett Rosenthal)), as a cash-
strapped single parent who also needs
to lead a life of her own.
There is also a great use of its guest
stars - so far we have had Oscar-
winning Octavia Spencer grace the
screens with her one stand-alone epi-
sode and Justin Long seems to be in
for an arc that should last for more
than a few episodes.
Thanks to its bold premise and
deeply flawed characters who have
plenty of crazy alcohol/drug-fuelled
stories to tell, Mom is a show that nev-
er gets boring.
incapable of taking care of himself
around the house.
Each week is a look at how this family
goes about putting up with one anoth-
er, with conflict mostly arising from
the bossy, controlling matriarch who
is always right and will be damned if
anyone has anything else to say about
that. Tom wants a divorce from Carol
after all the years of putting up with
such a monster, and so it’s up to the
children to somehow keep the peace
and quiet around their houses. Carol
is staying with a recently divorced
news anchor Nathan who is clearly
her favourite child, with Tom living
with Debbie and her family, although
this separation hardly ever keeps eve-
ryone apart, and it’s only when the
Millers are all in the same room that
we get plenty of laughs.
one idea and sticking to it, with the
cast playing around with the same
theme for several minutes. It depends
on the hyperactive Williams interact-
ing with various supporting members
of the cast to make them well-rounded
and for the most part they succeed. It
does, at times, have a tendency to go
completely overboard, and off-tan-
gent, and this method certainly won’t
be to everyone’s taste. Some might
find it repetitive and frustrating, but
the range at which the cast smoothly
performs is undeniably fun to watch.
Even at the age of 62, Williams has
still got it, and with the show’s full-
season renewal, bringing the number
of episodes of the first season up to
22, there is every opportunity here
for him to go wild and hopefully the
best moments wil make the cut and be
shown on the television screens.

