28 FRIDAY 08 NOV
FOOD
Editor: Carol Ann Cheah,
Michael Yat Kit Chung
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Now that Halloween’s been and gone, you might have plenty of
leftover pumpkin or might have decided to buy a few of them on the
cheap on impulse. Pumpkin is a perfect winter veggie that’s chock-full
of versatility; it lends itself to lovely hearty soups which are great for
this cold weather.
So don’t bin it all just yet - here’s a quick recipe that makes the most of
this yummy ingredient, a great treat for you and your friends!
For the cake
300g self-raising flour
300g light muscovado sugar
3 tsp mixed spice
2 tsp bicarbonate of soda
175g sultanas
½ tsp salt
4 eggs, beaten
200g butter, melted
zest 1 orange
1 tbsp orange juice
500g (peeled weight) pumpkin or butternut squash flesh, grated
*Protip: You can substitute with carrot for other times of the year!
For drenching and frosting
200g pack soft cheese
85g butter, softened
100g icing sugar, sifted
zest 1 orange and juice of half
Method
Heat oven to 180C. Butter and line a 30 x 20cm baking or small
roasting tin with baking parzchment. Put the flour, sugar, spice,
bicarbonate of soda, sultanas and salt into a large bowl and stir to
combine. Beat the eggs into the melted butter, stir in the orange zest
and juice, then mix with the dry ingredients till combined. Stir in the
pumpkin. Pour the batter into the tin and bake for 30 mins, or until
golden and springy to the touch.
To make the frosting, beat together the cheese, butter, icing sugar,
orange zest and 1 tsp of the juice till smooth and creamy, then set
aside in the fridge. When the cake is done, cool for 5 mins then turn
it onto a cooling rack. Prick it all over with a skewer and drizzle with
the rest of the orange juice while still warm. Leave to cool completely.
If you like, trim the edges of the cake. Give the frosting a quick beat
to loosen, then, using a palette knife, spread over the top of the cake
in peaks and swirls. If you’re making the cake ahead of time, keep it
in the fridge then take out as many pieces as you want 30 mins or so
before serving. Will keep, covered, for up to 3 days in the fridge. (But
I’m pretty sure it will all be eaten before then!)
Michael Chung, Food Editor. Adapted from BBC Good Food
A round-up on some of the world’s foodie vices under threat - some luxurious, some less so
Some Like It Hot...well, not all
Pumpkin Cake
It seems to have been quite a
tumultuous year in foodie arena,
with many food items under threat.
Just this Halloween, fans of the
global cult favourite Sriracha hot
sauce (affectionately known as
Rooster Sauce to some) breathed a
sigh of relief when a judge denied a
temporary restraining order against
the manufacturing company, Huy
Fong Foods.
The plaintiffs? Residents of
Irwindale, California; where Huy
Fong’s new processing plant is located.
Lame food pun notwithstanding,
the city’s main beef with Huy Fong
was that the spicy scent of ground
peppers due to the company’s chilli-
processing season from Sept to Dec
is a public nuisance in violation of
the municipal code. Some nearby
residents had complained of burning
eyes and throats, and had sued in
order to shut down production which
would have seen the price of Sriracha
sauce escalate due to massive demand
outstripping supply. The company
aren’t yet in the clear, the judge has
set Nov 22 for a further hearing. By
then however, chilli processing will
have been complete which means
this year’s sauce production is safe.
Although the plant’s long-term future
is unclear.
Sriracha wasn’t the only thing under
shortage threat this year. Below we
take a look at some of the food items
which came under the microscope this
year due to potential shortage .and we
also look at one cult foodie treat which
was brought back from the dead, shall
we say.
CHOCOLATE
Doubtless a good few of you will have
seen some panicked/sentimental
Facebook sharing of reports citing
how cocoa butter is becoming scarcer
by the day, largely due to dwindling
production in Ghana and the Ivory
Coast caused by poor weather, plus
the fact cocoa trees take up to 4 years
before producing cocoa beans so some
farmers have thrown in the towel as
the wait is “too long.”
Some reports even cite predictions
that the world’s supply of cocoa will
run out in about seven years, which
would mean that in order to keep our
supermarket shelves stocked with
grab-and-go treats, manufacturers
would have to start falling back on
vegetable fat substitutions (palm oil),
bulking bars out with more nut and
fruit etc. More bubbles in the “Aero
chocolate, now with more bubbles
and less chocolate. A few years ago, at
least you knew all of the solid stuff you
were getting in your bar was actual
chocolate.
WINE
Poor weather has also affected
vineyard harvests (ergo wine
production) in Europe over the last
few years, and the increase in wine
consumption in China and the US
seems to have put pressure on supply.
The world went into a bit of a panic
when Morgan Stanley published a
report saying that its research had
deduced a worldwide shortfall of up to
300 million cases in 2012.
Thankfully 2013’s harvest was
predicted to be a strong one, and
subsequent harvests have also been
predicted to be on the up which
is welcome news, after years of
mediocrity and cruddy weather for
farmers.
OLIVES
The popular bar snack also fell victim
to poor weather in both Spain and
Greece (specifically Halkidiki olives),
with olive distributors around the
world citing that suppliers were highly
likely to hike prices up by at least half.
GOAT’S CHEESE
Way back in 2009/2010, the
Netherlands, one of the biggest
producers of goat’s cheese had to
cull thousands of pregnant ewes to
curb the spread of Q disease which
could spread to humans. The effects
of this cull can still be felt now, with
cheese production having dwindled
both there and in France; demand,
however, has steadily increased since
then as goat’s cheese has become
more fashionable amongst consumers
and the catering trade.
Experts predict that this Christmas
which is traditionally when cheese
sales have been known to skyrocket,
some people are just going to have to
do without.
And one item that came back from
the dead.
TWINKIES
Yes, we know it’s not quite a real
cake/food item amongst purists. It’s
only fair that they do get a mention for
the bizarreness that happened when
they became scarce, $5 boxes of the
stuff were hoarded when production
ceased due to makers Hostess Foods
going bankrupt. One week before
they returned to store shelves being
produced under new ownership,
an eBay user was trying to auction
off some expired Twinkies as rare
collectibles for the price of $15,000,
“one that can be passed down the
family and will only gain in value.”

