30 FRIDAY 08 NOV
CLUBS & SOCS Editor: Nida Mahmud
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Charity Week
Ben Fernando
Charity Editor
F
or those of you who don’t know, Charity
Week is the Islamic Society’s fundraising
week. Last year they raised over £45,000
and this year they hope to raise even
more, with 100% of profits going to the
people who need them most – with nothing
subtracted for administration or overhead costs.
It’s hard to appreciate the scale on which this
occurs – universities across the world, from
Australia to Canada take part, and 14 universities
from London alone. Usman Siddiqui is this year’s
London coordinator, and one of our very own
medics. He explains that the money is allocated
to projects that are voted on by the volunteers
at a national round-up dinner. Last year projects
included rebuilding schools damaged by flooding
in Pakistan, treating 3000 malnourished children
in Somalia and providing vocational training for
orphans in Kenya.
Obviously some might be worried that
fundraising through a religious body could lead
to discrimination, on both ends. However, the
organisers make very clear that this will not be
an issue – both Muslims and non-Muslims help
to run the events, and the funding is allocated
without any religious considerations. The only
limitation is that the money must be spent on
helping orphans or otherwise needy children,
which seems sensible enough.
The most incredible thing about charity week
is perhaps the way in which it is run. Islamic
Relief, one of the charities that makes up the UK’s
Disasters Emergency Committee, provides all
the materials needed for the week so that none
of the donations are spent on overheads, and
handles all the financials. In the ten years that
Charity Week has been running, they have raised
over £2 million and have managed to orchestrate
this entire endeavour without overheads and
without paying any staff salaries, which I think
is absolutely amazing. What’s more, they didn’t
even set out with the intention of raising as
much money as possible, rather just uniting their
younger members under some worthwhile cause.
london.uk@onecharityweek.com
Do you recognise this band logo? Well
you should have come to the quiz
then! There were 20 points for getting
this bad boy (It’s Goat’s Ass Trumpet).
Whilst the Felix readers may be well
versed in the fortunes of Imperial
College’s competitive Rugby, Football
or synchronised swimming teams,
readers of the sports section may
have no idea that every year a far
more important showdown happens
between the universities of London.
So it was that this Tuesday members
of the Imperial rocksoc stepped onto
unholy ground at the UCL Union
to take part in their annual rock and
metal pub quiz.
Presented to them was a confusing
selection of questions. The musical
round, to test their ears.
The picture round, to test their
eyes. The band logo round, to test
their brand recognition. General
knowledge, to test their, well, primarily
knowledge of penguins this year.
Team Imperial valiantly waded
through this malaise of trivia,
Imperial Rocks!
Tell people about your
Club or Society via Felix.
For more info email
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Thomas Heaven
Clubs and Socs writer
casting lesser teams aside, to bring
you, second place! Claiming for the
Imperial vaults; a medium priced
bottle of Sainsbury’s Shiraz and a bag
of sour skittles, in what club secretary
Will Foster described as his “sourest
victory yet”. That’ll be first place next
time please.
The OSC climb the Queen’s
Tower and play football
H
ave you ever wondered
what it would be like
to climb our iconic
Queen’s Tower?
You’ll finally have
your chance next Wednesday – the
OSC (that is, the Overseas Societies
Committee) are fundraising for their
annual International Night (mark
your diaries for the 6th of March)
and will be offering tours to visitors
from 12-2pm. Krispy Kreme donuts
and Hummingbird Bakery cupcakes
will be available as well; so come
along to Queens Lawn on the 13th of
November!
International Night (I-Night) is the
flagship event showcasing the best of
the 40+ country societies at Imperial
College.
Not only is this a spectacular
performance held at our very own
Great Hall, but it’s also a night of
cultural interaction, entertainment
with a truly international perspective
complete with a raffle and a selection
of delectable snacks on the night.
This year, our theme is Beyond
Barriers, and we hope to make this
year’s I-Night the best yet with your
support!
So, keep your eyes peeled on the
Imperial OSC Facebook group for
more updates on our events and how
to get a privileged tour!
The greatest 5-a-side football
tournament is back! The OSC invites
you all to our very own World Cup on
Saturday 23rd November at 12.30pm.
This year we have booked longer
slots; so everyone will have more time
on the pitch!
We expect international society
members to team up and display
their football talents. The event is
guaranteed to be great fun and there
are fantastic prizes!
There will be 16 teams so spaces are
limited! Teams will be of 5 players and
a maximum of 3 substitutes.
Profits will go to charity and towards
funding future OSC events.
Important: to reserve a place, reply
to ba2111@imperial.ac.uk asap by
the 8th november (today) with your
society name and contact details of
sports secretary/captain.
Overseas Societies Committee detail what they have
got up to this week

