31
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 08 NOV
GSU
A Short Letter
Andreas Thomik
Graduate Students Union President
D
ear Postgraduate Students,
If you have been at Imperial for a
while now, you may have noticed that
the Graduate Students’ Association
(GSA) has now become the Graduate
Students’ Union (GSU) to better reflect our status
of representative body. You are automatically a
member, no matter whether you are studying
for you MSc, MRes or PhD. This change in name
has not changed our mission: we are still here to
represent your opinion in College and to provide
you with various opportunities to distract yourself
from work and meet new people.
This year, I am pleased to announce that we
have an incredibly ambitious and hard-working
team with equally ambitious goals. On the non-
academic side, you can look forward to a range of
fun events spaced regularly throughout the year:
a monthly pub quiz, movie nights and discounted
theatre trips are only a small sample of what you
can expect. These will always be well advertised
here in Felix, on our Facebook page and our
newsletter – so keep an eye out for anything
which may interest you!
However, a great student experience cannot be
obtained solely through social opportunities.
It means having no extra worries at work, and
someone to turn to should things go bad. We want
to ensure that you get the same opportunities, the
same representation, no matter whether you are
based at South Kensington or any other of the
manyImperialCampuses.Yourvoiceisimportant,
and we will endeavour to make it heard loud and
clear on all relevant College committees; because
we can only remain one of the best universities
in the world if we protect the student experience
from being sacrificed for pure academic success.
I look forward to seeing you at one of our events!
Andreas Thomik
GSU President
P.S. Keep Saturday 7th December free for this
year’s Post Grad Christmas Party! There will
be mulled wine, mince pies and snow! Wear a
Christmassy jumper and come celebrate with
us. Location and more details to be announced
shortly - keep an eye on your emails.
O
n the 21st December of
last year, the much beloved
Holland Club in the
basement of the Sherfield
building closed its doors for
the last time – to the big disappointment of
the numerous postgraduate students and
members of staff who enjoyed having a place
to have a decently priced pint in walking
distance of their lecture theatres and offices.
A lot of thirsty postgraduate students were
left to battle with undergraduates over a
place at the counter at FiveSixEight or shell
out a few extra pounds (and risk running
into their supervisor/lecturer) at one of the
pubs around campus.
These dark days have now thankfully
come to an end.
After 11 months of intense and hard
work and unexpected challenges, the space
formerly occupied by the Holland Club
has been completely renovated to become
h-bar1, the new home for taught and
research postgraduate students and staff
seeking to unwind after a hard day’s work.
Yesterday’s opening revealed a brand new
space with more than twice the capacity of
the former Holland Club. New tables, new
lights, new floor, new counter – even brand
new bathrooms! – nothing has been left to
its original state. Some people will certainly
regret the more classic, typical pub feeling
of the former bar, but equally many will be
happy to see the old carpet gone and a (new)
ventilation system installed.
Taught postgraduate students have a
particular reason to rejoice: in addition to
the beer, crisps and pizza offered by the
former Holland Club, the new h-bar now has
a fully functional kitchen which will provide
a warm lunchtime service, particularly
aimed at MSc students who had formerly no
dedicated space to go to. In addition to that,
there is a newly refurbished basement with
activities areas which students can book free
of charge to host small events.
But of course, what would the h-bar be
if it didn’t host the Holland Club’s most
faithful and regular guest: our monthly
GSU Pub Quiz, held every last Thursday of
the month, which had to take a temporary
home in The Union Bar over the past year.
To celebrate the opening of the new pub,
we are, exceptionally, putting on a special
edition of our pub quiz two weeks early –
that’s next week already! A GSU Christmas
party is also planned on the venues early
December. We look forward to seeing you
all there to thoroughly test the new facilities
and have a brilliant evening together.
Cheers to that!
Your GSU Committee 2013/14
1 Because let’s face it: even at Imperial, no
one was ever going to say “Let’s go for a pint
at the Reduced Planck Constant Pub”
A New Place for Postgrads
The role of the GSU Academic and Welfare Officers (AWOs) is very similar to the one of your freshly elected course and year Reps, with
the difference that they represent their entire faculty’s interests at the College level! If you feel that an issue you have raised may be relevant
to other courses/departments or is not being properly addressed, get in touch with your AWO! He will know how to best bring the issue
forward and can leverage the GSU’s strong links to the College’s administration to bring about the changes which matter to you.
No clue who your AWO is? Have a look below!
Your Representation
Mohammad Hassan
Ahmadzadeh (Engineering)
Hi everyone, I am currently
a second year PhD student
within the Biomechanics group
at Bioengineering department.
In our group we work hard
on very interesting research
topics to improve the quality
of healthcare. My research
focus is on validation of human
biomechanical models, I am
trying to develop a method
to translate the models into
clinical application and make
them usable as a clinical tool.
I am also the Bioengineering
departmental representative
and this year’s Academic and
Welfare Officer (AWO) for the
faculty of engineering. I am
representing the postgraduate
students and try to make
sure their voices are heard at
Imperial College Committees.
My role as AWO is to
collate information regarding
academic experience from
the Faculty of Engineering
representatives, initiate change
on the back of feedback
and ensure the quality of all
postgraduate-facing services.
Ruxandra Luca (Business)
Hi, I’m Ruxandra. I am a second
year PhD student, specialising
in consumer behaviour. As
AWO of the Business School,
I am interested in helping
students feel comfortable
during their time here, whether
they are at the beginning of
their programme or nearing
the end. I will be looking after
issues regarding both the
different Master’s programmes
and the Doctoral programme.
In my time as AWO, my aim
is to get students involved
in social activities across the
programmes and disciplines.
I think it is helpful to get
feedback from students as they
recognise the need to learn or
share something. This means
that I will be happy to answer
questions as they come up and
to listen to suggestions.
Marta Sawicka (Life Sciences)
Hi, my name is Marta and
I am your Academic and
Welfare Officer for Life
Sciences. I am a 2nd year
PhD student in the Division
of Molecular Biosciences,
and I have been at Imperial
since my undergraduate
studies. As your AWO, I will
represent all postgraduate
students in the faculty and do
my best to provide a smooth
communication between you
and the College. As your welfare
is a priority for the College, I
will try to help you resolving
your problems and concerns.
If you have any questions, need
more information or simply
want to share some ideas,
please feel free to email me.
Nuha Yassin (Medicine)
Max (Physical Sciences)

