SPORT Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
36 FRIDAY 08 NOV
IC Football serenely brush aside UCL 3-0
O
n Wednesday 30
October, we had a
big day ahead of us.
A wade to Nando’s to
eat all of their chicken
and take over their top floor, followed
by ACC. Matchboxes would be
thrown, pints would be downed and
crap costumes would be destroyed on
site.
Before all that promise though,
there was a football match to be
played (believe it or not). It wasn’t
just any old football match either;
this was a grudge match with our
less intellectual neighbours (all other
London unis), it was an absolute must
win game that would see us go 2nd in
our BUCS league that we had just been
promoted to. Nothing was going to
plan straight from the off, when one of
our centre backs Omar ‘I’m the Fastest
Man in IC Without Ever Leaving 2nd
Gear’ Amjad pulled out injured with a
calf strain, probably from all that rapid
jogging. Rumours suggested it was due
to an unorthodox warm up proposed
by Captain Robinson, involving his
girlfriend, however Captain Robinson
was conveniently ‘missing’ during the
pre-match warm up and unable to
comment. The second blow was dealt
when we received the news of having
to get changed at Little Harlington,
the solitary confinement prison cell of
changing rooms.
Regardless of the above we got out
early on to the 3G, the Megan Fox
of university football grounds, and
started our traditional pre-match
routine of high knees and high ankles.
After what seemed to be an eternity,
UCL decided to turn up, clearly having
spent most of their morning debating
whether or not to actually make
the journey to Harlington by public
transport just so they could receive a
well measured on-pitch beating. They
had a really quick warm up, probably
equivalent to how long they last in the
bedroom, and were thrust (wahey)
on to the pitch where we had been
waiting for nearly an hour. We were
absolutely all over them in the first 20
minutes and they had no idea what to
do with the ball,
Something just wasn’t clicking for
IC, Abou Ela-Bourquin was looking
for the long diagonal but it just wasn’t
coming off. The deadlock was almost
broken when Captain Robinson was
put through on goal; but their CB had
other ideas and absolutely destroyed
him from behind. It was definitely
inside the penalty area but the referee
absolutely bottled it and gave a free
kick and no card. It was at this point
where Hill decided the ref had gone
into the options menu on FIFA and
turned off cards altogether, but 9 cases
of assault later and Hill was finally
brandished a yellow card, something
that is almost as regular to him as
brushing his teeth twice daily. UCL
finally worked out which way they
were shooting and put some pressure
on our goal; it was at this point
Bofarull stopped packing his suitcase
and brushing his brilliant Pantene
Pro-V mop of hair and came to life,
making a superb close range save to
tip the ball over the bar for a corner.
We cleared the corner to the right
wing where Murphy pushed on with
the ball, Nielsen who was originally
on the front post overlapped with
more energy than a ferret on heat.
Somewhere in that attack the ball was
lost and it came to the UCL centre
back who decided, as the last man, it
was an ideal time to pull off a Cruyff
turn. Nielsen, who was still running
from the front post, nicked in and
pinched the ball off him, putting him
one on one with their keeper.
Nielsen, utterly unaccustomed with
one on one contact, couldn’t look him
in the eyes and decided to look at the
far post instead and casually stroked
the ball into the near corner with the
outside of his boot, leaving the keeper
stranded, legs open, in the middle of
Peter Nugent reports as Imperial College’s 1st XI show UCL how it’s done
the goal. Dominated. Cries of sheer
surprise erupted around Harlington
seeing Nielsen so far up the pitch,
after his FIFA-esque goal celebrations
he had to receive treatment on the
side-lines for a shock nosebleed, who
would have thought?
IC went in at half time 1-0 up, in
case you mysteriously skipped down
to the third paragraph. We knew we
had to keep up the intensity, and we
had to press as a team when they kept
it at the back because they were about
as comfortable at the back as James
‘Frosstyyyyyy’ Frost is with a drunken,
steaming iNuge screaming in his face
from close quarters on a Wednesday
night after a few Blackthorns.
The second half kicked off and it
was all about IC, Maizonnier summed
up the industrial side of the game
working hard to assist goal scorer
Nielsen at the back. Beasley and Hill
worked tirelessly in the midfield
while Kolawole Ayanwale effortlessly
provided the link between the midfield
and Captain Robinson. The hard work
all paid off when Murphy got down the
left wing with his back to goal, Nugent
overlapped in a blur of blue and red,
Murphy played a back heel to Nugent
who played it through to Ayanwale
in the penalty box. Ayanwale had
forced a save from a similar position
in the first half; instead he laid it off
to Captain Robinson who, with his
back to goal, dropped a shoulder like
it was hot, sent the defender to soccer
camp before turning the other way
and burying the ball in to the back of
the net. 2-0 up but the match, you’ll
be pleased to hear, was far from over.
A solid defensive display from IC
meant that UCL were reduced to shots
from far, one of those came off their
post and they tried their best to score,
fortunately for us the pressure was
almost too great but after successfully
hitting the post a second time within
the space of a second the attack was
quelled by Diaz. Captain Robinson
came off shortly after, some say it was
a pulled groin from the pre match
warm up, others say it was a twisted
ankle, but either way Shamsi made
an appearance, initially with a snood
that he was told to either take it off or
down it.
Luckily the ref never saw his
bathrobe in the post match showers.
Charrel also made an appearance, and
with a good touch and making some
tough tackles he was impressive on
his 1s debut; however a second injury
meant that Crawford had to be called
in to action. The responsible sober
giant was not too keen to play; some
say he had the flu, but rumour has it
he was keen to make a quick getaway
to catch the school run.
Regardless of his post match activity,
he played a solid role in seeing the
game out that was wrapped up with
Murphy running half the pitch past
numerous defenders, with decoy runs
made by Shamsi and Nugent playing
a key role in diverting the attention
of the defenders. Murphy played a
sumptuous one-two off their keeper’s
hands and forced the ball in to the
back of the net, not the only thing he
forces in on a Wednesday.
At a 3-0 whitewash, the game was
over and IC had come out on top. It
was a convincing victory in a must win
BUCS match. The only variable of the
day had gone our way, Nando’s and
ACC to follow were sure bets to top
off possibly the best day in history. If
Carslberg did match days…
ICUAFC is sponsored by:

