4 FRIDAY 08 NOV
NEWS
Editors: Aemun Reza,
Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
he Great Hall at Imperial
played host to the second
biannual People’s Question
Time, an opportunity for
members of the public
to interact directly with the Mayor
and the London Assembly. Over 700
people attended the event, with many
being members of the public that live
in the Kensington and Chelsea area.
The evening started with an
introduction from Darren Johnson,
Chair of the London Assembly,
followed by a lively speech from
the Boris himself featuring his
characteristic humour and dubious
statistics about the advances he had
made since making office in 2008.
According to the man himself, he
has cut delays on the tube by 40% (“Or
apparently [as this is] what TFL tell
me”) and his 8% crime cut is enough
to claim London is now the safest
cities in Europe, if not the world. He
also credited London for the immense
export trading that we provide,
heartily including Piers Morgan’s
exportation to America.
That’s not to say all members of
the crowd warmed to his humour.
Throughout the evening as topics
such as transport, planning
and development, housing and
regeneration were discussed, hecklers
constantly shouted above what Boris
was trying to explain, and other
members of the crowd often were
left shushing the more rowdier of the
members of the public.
Fire Station Closure
One topic in particular evoked a
very strong response from some of the
audience, and this was concerning the
closure of the fire stations across the
capital. Plans to shut 10 fire stations
and axe 550 jobs was approved by the
London Fire and Emergency Planning
Authority (LFEPA) in early September
of this year, causing considerable
distress to those in the boroughs
effected.
Assembly Member James Cleverly,
chairman of the LFEPA, supported
this decision although the Fire
Brigades Union (FBU) is currently
considering challenging the decision.
Cleverly, when explaining the cuts,
said that they were in response to
the significant reduction in fire risk,
and Fire Commissioner Ron Dobson
(who was not present) has already
stated how response times will remain
among the best in the UK.
One woman delivered a rather
emotive speech to the Mayor over
the decision, deploring the idea that
he was using his humour and charm
to mask the decisions he was making
that could potentially jeopardise
the lives of her, her family and the
rest of his community. However
there seems there is no turning back
on the motion, with the measures
coming into effect next January and
stations closing including those that
service Knightsbridge, Westminster,
Woolwich in Greenwich and Belsize
in Camden.
Accommodation
Students at Imperial also took the
chance to voice their views, with one
student asking about implementing
controls over the private
accommodation sector, especially
concerning landlords that “take
advantage” of the students looking to
rent properties for the first time.
With a quarter of all Londoners
renting from private landlords, Boris
making a decision about this would
certainly be in the interests of millions
of people across the city, although he
has decided to take a stance not to
interfere.
He stated that although it is “vital
to continue to build more affordable
homes,” capping the rent prices
would not be happening in the near
future. He stated that there is still
the Voluntary Accredited Landlord
scheme that should be ensuring that
the rights of the tenants are upheld,
but explained that he “cannot reduce
values of housing stock under the laws
of supply and demand.” More houses
are needed to reduce rent prices as
opposed to setting caps on rent prices
of existing properties.
Earl’s Court renovation plans:
The Earl’s Court Project
The renovation plans in the Earl’s
Court area was also discussed, with
members of the public voicing their
disbelief over the benefits to the
demolition of the exhibition centre
and 760 homes in the neighbouring
West Kensington and Gibbs Green
council estates. Boris approved plans
for the 77-acre redevelopment scheme
in July, called the Earl’s Court Project,
much to the displeasure of the rest of
the assembly who called the decision
“appalling.”
Nicky Gavron of the assembly from
the Labour party, implored members
of the public to “Go on with your
campaigning,” as the renovation plans
are still not a done deal. With the new
plans to include 6,000 new luxury
apartments, the audience argued that
the redevelopments did not include
options for affordable housing.
The London Living Wage
With Boris increasing this by 25p
to £8.55 this week, this was also on
the agenda. The wage is considered
to be the minimum people should be
paid per hour to cover the basic cost
of living in the capital, although it is
more of a recommendation than a
requirement with only five councils
of the 32 London boroughs currently
signed up to the scheme.
Boris praised the scheme, explaining
that it increases “loyalty [among
workers]” and delivers an acceptable
standard of living for the people
of London. No-one enquired as to
whether Boris was aware of Imperial
College directly employing 699 people
who are paid below the LLW, although
this was probably because the crowd
was still expending valuable energy in
calling him a ‘wanker’.
Travelling around London
Buses were also on the agenda, with
one man enquiring as to why buses
were constantly running down his
road of residence empty, including a
student favourite, the number 52. On
thisBorisexplainedhowunfortunately
there is no “great big bus Valhalla” for
buses to “recuperate in” after running
during peak travelling times, so they
are left circulating under capacity.
It is undecided as to whether or
not this warranted the man shouting
in response that Boris himself is a
“waste of space,” although considering
the other, less imaginative heckles he
received, was certainly not the only
person to feel animosity towards the
London Mayor during the evening.
One member of the public
enquired as to whether there will
be an introduction of greater safety
measures to the cycle lanes after
accidents have left cyclists injured,
occasionally fatally. However students
who do cycle criticised the discussion,
saying not enough was resolved
or disclosed to the public about
improving the lives of cyclists.
Boris did state that “so many people
[jostled] me as I was cycling through
Holborn. Maybe they had a point
to make, ” alluding to the idea that
people may be taking out their anger
at the Mayor using the very bikes that
are colloquially named after him.
The overall atmosphere of the
discussion was rather tense, with
audience members being very vocal
about the issues that they were
concerned about. However, the
evening ran smoothly, and it was
encouraging to see members of the
public getting involved with the
decisions that would affect their lives,
even if it did seem that the outcome of
some of the more audacious proposals
are looking rather bleak for some.
The next People’s Question Time
will be held after the New Year.
People’s Question Time
Philippa Skett
News Editor
Top: Boris answering questions during the meeting. Bottom: One of Boris’ vehement explanations Felix snapping an exclusive picture of the Mayor just before he departs for his journey home.
JOSEPH LETTS JOSEPH LETTS

