5
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 08 NOV
FEATURES
A
fortnight ago you read
about the IPCC report’s
finger-pointing, 7 days
later you glanced over
the future of energy
sourcing…now we will have you
contemplate sustainable strategies
for business, policy, and the general
economics of the future!
What exactly does sustainability
mean? Simply put, a business is
sustainable if it minimizes its adverse
impacts on the environment and
incorporates environmentally-
friendly operating principles while
managing to return a net profit, so
as to keep things going. So, what
will allow a business to continuously
return a net profit in such a manner?
One answer is by making products
that last long. In the current times,
consumerism has taken on a fickle
mask causing people to regularly
replace their gadgetry and personal
hardware – according to a 2011 survey
by the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), people in the UK get a new
phone every 22 months, only beaten
to ‘top’ spot by the US of A… similar
trends exist for TV sets, cars, and
other accessories. Such a trend has
been in part perpetrated by mobile
contract operators who tend to offer
handset upgrades at the end of a
contract’s tenure. There is little sign of
this being on the turn; however recent
viral concepts such as Phonebloks
(from Kickstarter) have shown that
there is substantial consumer demand
for electronic products that are more
sustainable, with companies such as
Motorola showing great interest and
supposedly developing a very similar
concept phone of their own.
Stemming from that thought,
another answer may well be to
implement infrastructure that
encourage consumers to embrace
e nv i ro n m e nt a l l y - s u s t a i n ab l e
concepts. For instance, constructing
buildings using more steel than
concrete, incorporating solar cells
and mini wind-turbines into their
designs, developing materials that
absorb and trap CO2
to lay pavements
with – these are all examples of how
sustainability has been introduced
into various communities around the
world.
Note,however,theword‘introduced’.
For any semblance of sustainability,
ideas have to be implemented on
a large-enough scale to make a
difference, which is where economics
and policy can play their part in
making things happen. To simplify the
economics to an almost-sacrilegious
level, if policy makers were to rule that
all future construction in a town/city
would have to conform to particular
standards and designs incorporating
sustainability, the demand for the
appropriate products and raw
materials would increase, making
business profitable for suppliers, while
demand for sustainable construction
would also rise, at the very least
maintaining profit margins for
constructors.
This change can also be brought
about by greater consumer awareness.
At the recent 20th Anniversary event
by Global Action Plan, a UK-based
charity focusing on encouraging
environmentally-conscious behavior,
Chris Rapley noted that if CO2 were
orange and noxious, people would
very likely be a lot more concerned
about it and the mitigation issue
might already have been addressed
by now. This implies that: because
one does not consciously get directly
affected by increased CO2 levels in
our daily lives, one feels less inclined
to take any steps against it. As a result,
businesses which already attempt to
be sustainable and promote it to their
customers, somehow find their efforts
not being reciprocated in terms of
interest from the market. Thus, the
challenge is to motivate people to
worry about climate change and
sustainability by showing them how it
will affect their lives.
On the other hand, there are
businesses and sectors of the economy
that are decidedly unsustainable, such
as petrochemical companies and
their associated industries. How can
they make a difference? On paper,
one possible strategy is to focus on
biofuels development, but that would
require a substantial write-off in terms
of capital and an unhealthy level of
fresh expenditure to merely adapt
their business to biofuels, after which
there would be the costs and problems
associated with securing land suitable
for cultivating biofuel crops, and so
on. It may well be that they would
have to completely shift their focus
and redevelop their brands.
There are yet many more issues to be
discussedinsuchafashion.Howwould
future conurbations, megalopolises,
and even ‘smart’ cities be planned and
designed? Will a ranking on the Dow
Jones Sustainability Index become the
single most important statistic for a
business to predict its future? Should
policymakers be obliged to be climate-
aware and incorporate sustainability
into policies? Well, we are no experts
but we are certainly keen to hear some
of them discuss exactly these issues
this Saturday in College.
Want to hear more conclusive
and insightful discussions about
sustainable business, policy and
economics of the future? Come
along to the London Climate Forum
at Imperial College London on 9th
November for a panel discussion
on this subject and a host of other
exciting talks and exhibitions.
Visit www.londonclimateforum.org
for more details as well as to grab
tickets!
Shiladitya Ghosh
LCF Organising Committee
Business, Policy, and Economics for the Future: A Sustainable
Part 3 of a 3 part feature brought to you by the London Climate Forum 2013
Sexual Health Advice and Guidance (SHAG) week is more than just an excuse for a convenient acronym, it’s an entire programme of activities running next week
that focusses on all topics related to sex, sexual health and sexuality.
There will be a SHAG stall in Sherfield foyer every lunchtime providing condoms, information and, most importantly, the opportunity to try out various SHAG-themed
games such as ‘Guess the Number of Condoms in the Jar’ and ‘Unlucky Dip’ for the chance of winning a fabulous prize.
SHAG week also features a range of free events that are open to everyone, including:
Monday
‘It Gets Better’ at
Imperial
18.00-20.00 Huxley LT 145, Reception in
Metric from 20.00
A panel of Imperial staff and students will
be discussing their experiences with coming
out. This will then be followed by a reception
in Metric to give people a chance to meet,
mingle and continue the discussion.
Wednesday
Pee-in-a-Pot
Testing
19.00-20.00 Space between FiveSixEight
and the Union Bar
The Terrence-Higgins-Trust will be
visiting the Union to provide quick and
easy ‘pee in a pot’ style screenings at CSP
night.
Thursday
Free Sexual
Health Clinic
11.00 – 16.00 Activity Spaces, Union
Building
Services available include rapid HIV,
chlamydia and gonorrhoea tests, condoms,
lube and advice. The clinic welcomes all
students regardless of age, gender, sexual
orientation, study type or country of
origin.
Friday
‘Philadelphia’
Film Screening
18:30 Concert Hall, Union Building
Tom Hanks and Denzel Washington
star in the Academy Award Winning
‘Philadelphia’, a film which tackles AIDS,
homosexuality and homophobia in 1980s
America.
SHAG Week Next Week

