6 FRIDAY 08 NOV
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
SNITCHNGR.COM
Skett’s science corner
Philippa Skett
Science Editor
Diagnosing Down’s Syndrome
Utsav Radia on the new antenatal blood test and its
potential to detect the genetic disorder before birth
A
new antenatal blood
test, developed by
Professor Kypros
Nicolaides and his team
of researchers at King’s
College London in collaboration with
University College London Hospital,
with the potential to diagnose Down’s
Syndrome in developing foetuses, is
being considered for trial in the NHS.
Down’s Syndrome, also called
Trisomy 21, is a genetic condition
affecting around 750 (1 per 1000)
newborns in the UK each year and
is one of the most common genetic
causes of learning disabilities. Trisomy
21 is caused by the presence of all or
part of an extra copy of chromosome
21 in a person’s DNA.
Down’s patients suffer from many
physiological disabilities such as
hypotonia (reduced muscle tone),
sandal toe, congenital heart defects,
brachydactyly (short fingers), a flat
facial profile and skeletal deformities.
Down’spatientsstrugglewithactivities
like walking, sitting, standing, reading
etc. There is no current cure for
Down’s Syndrome but support is given
to help patients lead a healthier, active
and independent lifestyle.
Current antenatal screening
involves a combined test done in the
first trimester between the 11th and
13th weeks of pregnancy and includes
ultrasoundscreening(usedtomeasure
thickness of tissue at the back of the
foetus neck) and a hormonal test of the
mother’s blood (to detect high levels
of Human Chorionic Gonadotrophin
and Estriol). The results of these tests
along with the mother’s age are used
to predict the risk to the foetus – this
method picks up about 90% of cases.
For high-risk pregnancies, further
methods of testing include: Chorionic
Villus Sampling, which involves
taking cell samples from the placenta;
and, Amniocentesis, where a sample
of amniotic fluid is taken. These are
subsequently analysed for presence
of the extra chromosome 21 copy.
However, both methods are invasive
and carry a 1% chance of miscarriage
and a false positive chance of 3-4%.
The new antenatal blood test
uses ‘foetal cell free’ (cf) DNA that
is present in the mother’s blood
to scan for the presence of the
extra chromosome 21. The study,
published in the journal ‘Ultrasound
in Obstetrics and Gynaecology’, shows
that in the 1005 pregnancies trialed
at 10 weeks, there was a much lower
false positive rate of 0.1% and a 99%
rate of Down’s Syndrome detection.
Currently, this test is only being
offered privately and to any pregnant
women who volunteer to participate
in the ongoing trials. Professor
Nicolaides added that this new
technique “if offered across the UK,
would have the potential to increase
the diagnosis rate from 1,000 cases
to almost all of the 1,200 which occur
every year”.
Professor Lyn Chitty of Great
Ormond Street Hospital confirms that
this could “very significantly reduce
the number of invasive tests” as only
0.5% of cases that had the blood test
required any form of invasive testing.
Early detection of the condition in
foetusescanhelpparentstoplanahead
and also gives them time to learn more
about the condition and how they can
help their child. However, at £400 a
test, it seems highly unlikely that will
be readily available through the NHS
any time soon.
DOI: 10.1002/uog.12504
There is plenty of on-going research
in the field of battling cancer, whether
chemically, physically or biologically.
A research group from southern
California is developing a new
strategy on improving the transport
of medicine within the patients’ body,
by creating antibodies which only
activate in the presence of cancer cells.
The idea of using monoclonal
antibodies (antibodies cloned from
a unique parent) is not a new one,
and has existed for almost a century.
However, due to side effects and the
way certain antibodies attack the
cancer cells, there has only recently
been approval for their use. For
example, the Cetuximab antibody
releases antigens which can become
toxic to skin cells in high doses,
limiting the effectiveness of this
treatment.
Attempts to use antibody-drug
conjugates have shown potential, but
are still limited due to skin toxicity.
However, due to healthy tissue cells
expressing similar properties to the
diseased cells, the antibodies are not
always able to make the distinction
and may target healthy tissue too.
A solution was proposed by a team
of researchers led by Desnoyers
Luc, to mediate the toxicity of the
antibodies based on the surrounding
cells. While the antibodies would
still have the power to knock out
cancerous infections, they would only
release the antigens in the presence of
the intended cells.
The research group developed the
EGFR antibody PB1 based on the
previously trialled Cetuximab and
their tests have shown hopeful results.
Comparing the two in mice tissues,
PB1 and Cetuximab both showed
close to 80% reduction in cancer cells.
However, when tested in primate cells,
Cetuximab caused the predicted skin
toxicity, although no such observation
was made in the PB1-treated bodies.
Further tests were conducted at
higher doses, and for longer periods,
after which mild dermal toxicity was
found, but at a less severe level than
the Cetuximab.
Analysis and research are continuing
in this area, but with more hopeful
results being shown, this could
develop into quite a plausible method
of treatment.
DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3006682
Antibody treatment for cancer
Pavitar Singh Devgon
Science Writer
Love Science?
Or want to be Brian Cox? You need to
start somewhere...
Why not write for us? Get in touch!
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Follow us on twitter,
where we’ll post up
any interesting stuff
we stumble upon
(science-related,
obviously).
@SciFelix
It has been a busy week here on campus, with both
Boris Johnson and the president of South Korea paying
a visit. Such activity has highlighted the fact that both
science and politics are actually very much intertwined;
something that can be easy to overlook.
Our own Professor Nutt this week was rewarded the
2013 John Maddox Prize for Standing up for Science,
for his impact in influencing drug classification, and his
dedication to promoting science despite facing difficultly.
His paper earlier in the year, published in Nature,
implored the government to reconsider their rather
arbitrary drugs classifications to allow for a more
comprehensive scope into the research concerning illegal
drugs and their biochemical effects.
With drugs ranging from cannabis to MDMA having
potential medicinal benefits for treating a whole host of
ailments, research has been stifled by the government
legislation surrounding lab acquisition of the drugs for
experimentation.
His relentless rebuttal against current legislation led to
his dismissal from the government, highlighting just how
science and politics can struggle together at times.
On a brighter note, the UK and Korea signed an
agreement to advance fuel cell technology, with Imperial’s
own Professor James Stirling and Professor Taihyun
Chang, Provost and Executive Vice President of Pohang
University of Science and Technology in Korea, penning
their names to agree to further engage in hydrogen and
fuel cell technology.
Science and politics can be so intrinsically involved that
neither should be seen as entirely exclusive or independent
of each other. The clash or collaboration between the two
seem even more exuberated this week, but it is great to
see Imperial providing a platform for both of these.
It is important to remind ourselves that there is a bigger
world outside the microcosm of science and technology
that we currently seem to reside in on campus.
The science we are learning, the way in which we learn
it, down to the jobs available for when we graduate are
all sculpted according to the political landscape that
paves Exhibition road and beyond. It is important to
recognise that science doesn’t exist as a pure endeavour
of the pursuit of knowledge but hangs within the larger
framework of politics and policy.
Cancer cells like these may be targetted by the treatment

