imperialcollegeunion.org
Sexual Health Clinic
As part of SHAG week, Imperial College Union will be hosting a free sexual health
clinic run by the Terrence Higgins Trust.
The clinic will take place in the Activities Spaces, Union Building, Beit Quad.
Services available include rapid HIV, chlamydia and gonorrhoea tests, condoms,
lube and advice. The clinic welcomes all students regardless of age, gender,
sexual orientation, study type or country of origin.
Appointments are bookable from 11:00 - 16:00, and a limited number are bookable
in advance. To book an appointment or get more information about the clinic,
please contact Zoe Richardson, Representation Coordinator, at z.richardson@
imperial.ac.uk.
imperialcollegeunion.org/sexual-health
Union Page
SHAGWeek
Sexual Health Advice and Guidance (SHAG) week is a programme of events
geared towards providing information and starting dialogue on all topics related
to sex and sexuality.
There will be a range of activities throughout the week, including a series of talks
from Imperial staff and students about their experiences coming out, a SHAG-
themed Quiz, a free sexual health clinic and film screenings. The events are free
to attend and open to everyone.
In addition, there will be a SHAG stand in the Sherfield Foyer every lunch time
over the week. Here you’ll be able to pick up a pack of condoms, ask questions
and maybe even win a prize!
Job opportunities at the Union
We have the following part-time vacancies and voluntary positions available -
just visit our website to apply.
StudentTrustees of the Union (voluntary position) - applications close
Friday 15 November, 12:00
Help us improve and better serve the students of Imperial College London.
MinibusTeam
We are looking for people to join our team of student staff to help look after
our fleet of minibuses.
PorterageTeam
We are looking for a team of student staff to help us keep the Union Building
and its spaces ready for the day ahead.
imperialcollegeunion.org/jobs
imperialcollegeunion.org/shagweek
imperialcollegeunion.org/h-bar
h-bar is the exciting new Postgraduate and staff pub and café bought to
you by Imperial College Union and Campus Services.
it will be open on weekdays from 10:00 to 23:00 and offers international grab and go lunch options in the café and traditional fare
from hearty pies to favourite tipples in the pub.
Featuring a superb selection of real ales and lagers and guest ales chosen by you, great traditional pub food at lunch times and in
the evenings, grab-and-go street-style lunch options from the cafe and regular events such as the GSU Pub Quiz, we couldn’t be
more excited about the new h-bar!
Keep an eye out for introductory offers on food and drink to welcome you to our new pub.
h
h-bar opening on Friday 8 November at 17:00

