HOW TO GET MORE
MONEY!
THERE ARE 9 SPARE NURSERY PLACES....Contact University of London Union,
Malet Street. Nearest tube: Russel Square. The places are for children aged between
two and five. See Michsel Arthur or phone 580-9551 ext 41.
Living on a grant is not the easiest things
at the best of times, and if, for example,
the full parental contribution is not
forthcoming, it can be well nigh
impossible: Rising accommodation
costs and the effects of inflation all go to
making survival that little bit more
difficult.
When the grant figures are worked out
the bureaucratic mind is no doubt
influenced by other benefits which
students may be entitled to and the grant
is calculated accordingly.
This article is a quick survey of some of
the ways in which you can increase your
income simply by filling in the right
forms at the right time.
DO YOUR PARENTS HAVE TO
MAKE UP YOUR GRANT?
If so, by using a covenant and getting the tax
that your parents have already paid on their
contribution back from the taxman, you can
end up with 1.43x whatyouget atthemoment
(nearly half as mucha again). There used to
be a number of complications with covenants
arising from the child tax-allowance, but
these have now disappeared and virtually
anyone receiving a parental contribution can
benefit hugely, simply by filling in a form.
Further information on how to draw up a
covenant can be obtained from the Welfare
Centre.
HAVE YOU EVER EARNED OVER
£375 IN ONE TAX YEAR?
If you have, you may be able to claim:
Unemployment Benefit during vacations and
Sickness Benefit if you are ill for more than
three days (even during term time) PLUS
various other benefits.
Eligibility for these benefits is based on the
national insurance contributions which you
have paid on earnings during the R E L E V A N T
TAX Y E A R . The 'relevant tax year' is the
complete tax year preceeding the calender
year in which you are claiming. Thus if you
claim in 1979 it is April 1977 - April 1978 and
for 1980 it is April 1978 - April 1979. The
amounts that you have to have earned and the
benefits they produce:
April 1977-1978
£375-569
£570-749
£750 plus
April 1978-1979
£437.50-664
£665-874
£875 plus
Weekly Benefit
£9.25
£13.88
£18.50
If you have earned more than this you should
get an earnings related supplement as well.
If you have earned this kind of money in any
- tax year and your 17th birthday fell after April
1977, you may be eligible even though you
didn't earn the right money in the right tax
year.
One thing to watch out for is the effects of
the dreaded 'thirteen week rule'. What this
means is that if you make one claim and then
make another within thirteen weeks of the
first, then the second claim is treated as being
a continuation of the first claim so that it is
your entitlement from the second claim. This
means that you have to do your sums
carefully before making a claim or else you ,
may end up losing out.
Example: Harry's entitlement during 1979 will
be based on the £520 that he earned during
summer 1977 because it falls into the 1977-78
tax year. If he claims in 1980, his entitlement
will be based on the £880 that he earned
during summer 1978.
The first three days of a period of sickness or
unemployment do not count for these
benefits so Harry will be entitled to a week's
sickness benefit, two weeks unemployment
benefit for the Christmas 1979 vacation anf
four weeks benefit for the Easter 1980
vacation. If Harry claims at Christmas, his
claim at Easter will be affected by the thirteen
week rule and he will get the same rate at
Easter as he did at Christmas. If you look at
the benefit rates listed above, you will see that
this entitles him to £9.25 per week. If Hary
doesn't claim at Christmas, his claim at Easter
will not be affected by the thirteen week rule
and a quick look at the benefit rates shows
that he will be entitled to £18.50, based on the
£880 that he earned in the 1978-79 tax year.
So, if he claims at Christmas 1979, he will get:
£9.25 sickness benefit, £18.50 (2 weeks at
£9.25) unemployment benefit (Christmas)
a n d £37.00 (four w e e k s at £9.25)
unemployment benefit (Easter) making a
total £64.75.
If Harry doesn't claim at Christmas however,
he will get £9.25 sickness benefit and £74.00
unemployment benefit (Easter) making a
total of £83.25. So, if Harry plays his cards
right he can make £18.50 more by ommitting
to make one claim than he would have done if
he had made the claim.
DO YOU PAY RENT?
Rent probably accounts for more than one
third of your weekly income and it is one of
the areas in which the biggest savings can be
made.
The Rent Acts provide machinery whereby
any tenant can approach their local Rent
Officer or Rent Tribunal and ask them to
register a fair rent. (The choice of who you go
to depends on the kind of accommodation
that you live in.) A fair rent is likely to be
around half of what you are paying at present.
Many landlords try to offer you a deal which
takes you outside the ambit of the Rent Acts
but most of these are shams and needn't
deprive you of your rights.
DO YOU HAVE TO PAY RENT
DURING THE VACATION?
If you do, you can claim a Rent Allowance and
a Rate Rebate from the housing department
at your Town Hall. Actually, you can claim
these all the year round, but they are much
more beneficial during the vacation when the
grant doesn't cover accommodation. The
sooner you start claiming these, the more
money you will end up with.
SUPPLEMENTARY BENEFIT
Another way of paying your rent during the
vacations is to claim Supplementary Benefit.
This involves signing on as unemployed in
London each (or at any rate most) weeks
during the vacation. Once you have signed on
as unemployed, you then go to the offices of
the Department of Health and Social Security
to fill in some more forms and have an
interview.
One snag about claiming Supplementary
Benefit is that it means that you are
a u t o m a t i c a l l y c l a i m i n g U n e m p l o y m e n t
Benefit. This means that if you claim for your
rent at Christmas and were thinking of
claiming Unemployment Benefit at Easter
you will be clobbered by the thirteen week
rule.
If you would like further information on any of
this or want some of the abundant confusion
clarified, please come and see me in the
Welfare Centre (third floor, Union Building).
M I C H A E L A R T H U R
Welfare Adviser.
F E L I X
S O C I E T Y
The first meeting will be held
on Monday 26 November at
12:45 in the FELIX Office.
Matters arising are elections to
posts on the committee and the
30th anniversary issue of
FELIX. All are welcome to
attend. Contact the Editor for
further details.
U G M
Union General Meeting, this
Tuesday 27 November at 1:00
in the Great Hall, Sherfield
Building. Motions include
Cambodia, Human Rights,
Student Grants for Cities,
Education Cuts and the Corrie
Bill.
T A B L E TENNIS C L U B
presents
A C H R I S T M A S H A N D I C A P
C O M P E T I O N
Last two weeks of term. Entrance
25p to Pete Hewkin, Physics 3.
Festive Prizes. Open to any
member of College. See posters
for more details.
13

