If you've never hitched out of London, then
knowing where to start from can be a
problem, so here are some bits of information
I've gathered:
Go West Young Men (or Women)
The number 27 bus goes to Bristol, South
Wales and the South West. Well, not all the
way, but you can catch the 27 from Barkers
on High Street Kensington and it will take you
to Chiswick roundabout. This is a famous
hitching spot: it is the junction between the
North and South Circular Roads and the M4
and is heavily used by all sorts of traffic. The
best place to stand is by a couple of small lay-
bys on the slip road leading on to the M4 just a
few yards from the roundabout. I would
strongly recommend this spot if you want to
go anywhere in the West: on the dozen or so
occasions I've hitched from there I've never
waited more than fifteen minutes for a good
lift. (NB Gunnersby tube is only a few
hundred yards away from the roundabout
too.)
Everybody has heard of the celebrated
Murphy-Sodde Law usually in the form
defined by one Jennings: "The probability
that a piece of bread dropped onto a carpet
will fall with the buttered side down, is
directly proportional to the cost of the carpet"
or else in the original, "If something can go
wrong, then it will." There are many minor
laws of sciences which are related to these,
but unfortunately less well-known. One is the
Law of Selective Gravity attributed to one of
Galileo's pupils: "An object will fall so as to do
the most damage." No doubt the reader will
have heard of the experiments carried out
from the leaning Tower of Pisa in order to
prove this, in 1612. This Tower is itself an
example of Murphy's law of course. A variant
of the above law is "A component will fail so
as to do the most damage." There is also the
Law of Cussedness of Natural Objects which
states that "the likelihood that a component
(eg nut or ball-bearing) will roll away into an
inaccessible place, is directly proportional to
its importance in the apparatus." O'Toole has
made an important Observation on Murphy's
Law, viz, "Murphy was an optimist."
Murphy's law is a comment on our difficulty
in understanding causality and coincidence
in the Universe, and is therefore applicable to
many disciplines. For instance, applied to the
theory of queues, it yields Etorre's
Observation, "The other line alway moves
faster."
There a number of quite separate rules
governing scientific research. These include
Gordon's Law, "If a project is not worth doing
at all, then it is not worth doing well," and
Hoare's Law of Large Problems, "Inside every
large problem is a small problem struggling
to get out." Those who have studied Physics
will have encountered Fermi's Golden Rule
but may not know the Second Golden Rule,
viz, "whoever has the gold, makes the rules."
The Northern Lights
Staples Corner, the start of the M1, appears
to be a most unsuitable place to try and get a
lift: the motorway leads straight off the
roundabout junction with the North Circular
and there is nowhere for cars to pull up
except the hard shoulder (where it is illegal
for motorists to stop for you). Nevertheless it
is a popular spot for hitch-hikers and on
Friday evenings it's like a bus queue there.
Don't be put off if you're tenth in the queue:
offers of lifts come very frequently (every two
or three minutes) and once past Watford Gap
you're well on your way to any city in the
Midlands, North East and North West. The
16A from Hyde Park Corner and the 266 from
Hammersmith go to the roundabout; the 16
and 616 go to the Cricklewood Garage, which
is only ten minutes walk away.
Cambridge Rejects
If you want to visit the town where you
might have gone to university, the M11 goes
most of the way there but is a surprisingly
quiet road. The central line tube station at
Redbridge is by the start of the M i l .
Alternatively you can try the A10: Piccadilly
line tuve to Turnpike Lane then the W1 bus to
the Great Cambridge Roundabout, also on
the North Circular.
Oxford Rejects
The road to that other den of dons is the
Parkinson's Law is of course very well known,
stating that "work expands to fill the time
available"; derivative of this is the ninety-
ninety rule of project schedules: "The first
90% of the job takes 90% of the time, and the
last 10% of the job takes another 90%."
Turning to Thermodynamics, there are four
laws, of which no-one can remember the
zeroth law (which is actually a mathematical
formulation of thermodynamic equilibrium);
but the first three laws have been
paraphrased as follows.
1. Y o u can't win, you can only break even.
2. You can only break even at absolute zero (-
273 C).
3. You can't ever reach absolute zero.
The second law leads to Zymurgy's First
Law of Evolving Systems Dynamics, "Once
you open a can of worms, then the only way
to recan them is to have a larger can.
The scientific method itself is neatly
encapsulated in Mater's Law, "If the facts do
not conform to the theory, then they must be
disposed of." A quite serious law, for a
change is that thought up by William of
O c c a m (1284-1349) and known as Occam's
Razor this states, " 9 0 % of any theory can
usually be disposed of" or " a good theory has
a minimum of variables in it."
In the pseudo-sciences, very few of the
laws very sensible (it's said that if you laid all
the economists in the country end to end,
they'd never reach a conclusion) but I rather
like Barth's distinction: "There are two types
of people; those who divide people into two
types and those who don't."
I am sure that the Editor will be pleased to
hear of"any other laws of science, whether
variants of Murphy-Sodde's law orotherwise,
which readers may have come across. (You
wanna bet — Ed)
Derrick Everett
A40. Y o u could try starting at Paddington or
Shepherd's Bush, but the recommended spot
is the A4/North Circular Interchange at
Hanger Lane - central line tube right there.
Deep South
I hate hitching south from London: S E
London especially is a maze of roads through
suburbia with no clear routes. Here are a few
possibilities though:
A2 for Dover, Canterbury etc: Shooters Hill
seems to be the best bet, probably at the
junction with Rochestar Way, but I've never
tried it myself (!) (36 bus to Lewisham, then
the 108 to Rochestar Way). A 3 for
Portsmouth. Catch the 14 bus to Putney and
then walk towards Richmond. After a mile
there's a damn good roundabout to hitch at. If
you want to get on the M 3 there are several
roundabouts along the Chertsey Road that
are quite reasonable. Take the tube to
Richmond and walk from there.
Epitaph
That's my lot, but prompted by a letter in
FELIX two weeks ago, I started thinking about
the idea of a hitch-hiking race and wondered
about combining it with a way of raising
money for Rag. How about a day's sponsored
hitching race around Easter time? (ie when
the weather is better). If you've any ideas on
this, drop me a line via the FELIX Office.
Gilly Anchors
SUMMER IN AMERICA
Wouldn't you like to work in America next summer
and earn enough to tour the States and Canada? Of
course you would, so why not do it next year with
the British Universities North America Club?
BUNAC is a non-profit making national club
which organises an exchange program enabling
students at British universities - including overseas
students - to work in the USA and Canada. BUNAC
arranges members' work permits, flights, insurance
and the first night's board in America. They also
have an office in New York to give help to the
participants, should they need it.
Members have the choice of finding their own job
or of working at a kids' summer camp. Those who
choose to work at a camp have the further choice of
whether to work with the children (it helps if you are
a bit extrovert) or working on the kitchen an
maintenance side. Those who choose to work on a
camp have everything arranged for them. However,
those members choosing the other scheme have to
arrange their own job for themselves, although
BUNAC does publish a small job directory early
next year to help. It is possible to get jobs in industry
that are even better paid than the casual labour jobs
that most participants work at. The idea of the
schemes is »K
~.t members should be able to break
even overall if they wish.
Interested? Then come and find out more about
the BUNAC schemes at our weekly meetings, every
Friday between 12:30 and 1:30 in the Green
Committee Room on the 3rd floor of the Union
Building.
IC BUNAC Committee: Philip Harper (Physics 3)
and James Rowley (Physics 2).
AWFUL RECORD REVIEW
Sarah Brightman and the Aliens
'LOVE IN A UFO'
(release date October 12th)
Similar to 'I Lost my Heart to a Starship
Trooper', which is all that need be said,
except that it contains the touching lyric: " O h
what a trip it was - so cosmic-ly orgasmic, I'd
no idea he was an android made of plastic".
Simon Hodgson
SOME LITTLE KNOWN
PHYSICAL LAWS
14

