LIFE IN THE BALANCE
NICE BIT
Once Rag Week is over the term is officially
on the wane and, with only the Monster C&G
Carnival to go, that is nearly the case.
At the time of writing, the first week of the
'Rag 11 Days' has been a wild success, both in
terms of attendance and (more importantly)
profit for the Rag charities. I must
congratulate all those who have taken part, in
an organisational capacity. Especially those
from Mines who made the Chaps Ragarama,
great fun and also Rick Archer and his
committee who produced the Smoking
Concert to be proud of.
NASTY BIT
Which brings me onto a bit of a niggle. I have
watched with interest as the letters have piled
in urging the Union to deal with the internal
issues and leave the external issues to
personal commitment. I agree with that
absolutely and it was the very lynch-pin of
why I stood. The letters then go on to cite
refectories and accommodation as such
internal issues, which is true, and the
education cuts as an external issue and it is
here that I must disagree. The effect of the
reduction of the College budget is going to
have drastic repercussions on the overall
service offered by College. The college, in the
next few years, will be looking for massive
savings in its expenditure and the first things
to suffer will be the non-academic areas, ie
the afore-mentioned internal issues. This is
not to say that the academic standard and
number of courses offered won't suffer
because they will. So this is where the
compartmentalisation breaks down the
internally important issues which will be
directlyu affected by the external dictates of
the present government.
As to what the Union is doing in the face of
these problems? Well the residence and
refectory accounts are both very vulnerable
beasts and I have been in lengthy discussions
with all those concerned in the hope that the
present inflationary situation (as well as the
cuts) does not lead to hardship to consumers,
and too great a reduction in standards.
CLARIFICATION BIT
I would like to point out one or two things.
The profits from the bars, including the Union
Bar do not go to the Union, the bars are run
and priced by College. Although the Bar
Committee has a student chairman
(Malcolm), the prices are ultimately set by the
Rector and the Committee serves only to
recommend. On the subject of residence I
would like to underline that an adequate
number of places near college at a
reasonable price is a priority. The Lexham
Gardens Head Tenancy Scheme has proved
successful, and I emphasise, owes its
existence to the Student Union's pressure on
Administration. Michael Arthur, the Union
Welfare Adviser, has just had his brief
changed taking on increased accom-
modation responsibilities and an increased
sphere of influence in College block, to
counter this an extra person in the Welfare
Centre will be employed part-time to cover
for Michael, when he is out of the Welfare
Centre.
ON THE SUBJECT OF REFECTORIES
Instead of just producing nihilistic
complaints there is a mechanism for
constructive criticism. The Refectory
Committee has a C o m p l a i n t s and
Suggestions Sub Committee which has a
specific brief to handle ideas from
consumers, ie YOU! So use the complaints
boxes.
END BIT
Environmental Week is coming. There a
number of excellent discussions coming up,
don't miss the.n.
You've been here long enough now to have
formed constructive ideas on the way the
Union can best serve the interests of its
members. Why don't you stop me, tell me, and
at the same time test my humanoid quotiant.
Bye....Chris.
JUST A SEC
After Rag Week there is a slight rest period
and then comes ENVIRONMENTAL WEEK. I
do hope this will catch you imagination and
excite-you sufficiently for you to turn up to a
number of events. The programme is listed in
the centre pages, so I needn't repeat that
here, despite urging you all to turn up to the
opening event and the concert on Friday 30th
November with Brothers K, one of the best
bands I've seen for ages (tickets 75p from
Union Office). I would especially like to thank
all those who have given up time to help:
David, Veronique, Kim, Paul and College Day
Bookings.
ELECTIONS
If you are in Elec Eng, you finally have a
departmental representative. He is a first
year, Richard Lucas.
Papers are up, until 5:30pm Monday, for
another ordinary representative' on the
University of London Student Representative
Council. If you are interested, get a proposer
and five seconders and sign your name up on
the papers.
FIRST YEARS
If you are a first year and are interested in
organising an International Conference on
Science and Technology in 1981 come and
see me. ICU will be hosting this annual
venture and due to its sheer nature and extent
preparations must begin now. I attended the
conference last year, which was held in Paris.
It is a most informative meeting and increases
links between students from all over Europe.
BIKES
I am assured by College that there are plenty
of bike racks dotted over College that are
barely used. A map will be going in FELIX
shortly.
BIKE INSURANCE AND
VACATIONS
I have had enquiries about whether bikes are
insured by the Union, if on College premises.
There are, but ONLY if you live in a College
Hall of Residence, Head Tenancy or Student
House. All other bikes are NOT insured. I
hope this has cleared up the doubts.
I have also had enquiries about whether stuff
left in your college room over the vacation is
insured. The answer is this: If you go on
vacation and leave various articles in your
room or in a locked baggage room this is
covered. However, the policy is subject to a
condition that you take all reasonable care.
An interpretation of this is that If you leave
your room unlocked and/or occupied by
strangers, then those valuables would not be
covered.
The moral is this: If you wish to leave articles
in your room over the vacation, ascertain
whether your room will be occupied during
the vacation. The Housekeeper should
promise not to give anyone your key, in which
case you are covered. If they do not and you
are told it will/may be used, then difficulties
would/could arise in the event of a claim.
BADGES
You are still able to produce your very own
badges in the Union Office. The cost is 9p to
clubs and societies and 15p to individuals.
Also if you want to be cool buy an
Environmental Week badge.
UGM
See you at the UGM this Tuesday at 1:00pm in
the Great Hall.
See you around,
Roger.
TICKETS ON SALE
for IC Choir's Christmas
Concert in the Great Hall
on DECEMBER 7th at
8:00pm.
Tickets £1.10 (75p for
students) from the Union
Office or the Haldane
Library (or contact Sue
McClaughry, int 3840).
AEROSOC DARTS COMPETTION
The annual competition held in Beit
Quad attracted a large number of
entrants than in previous years. The
total takings were just under £10,
therefore a record prize of £4.60 was
awarded to the winner, Mike Napier,
Aero 2 (need I say more!), the rest going
to Rag.
Also, a special mention goes to Alex
Kam, Aero Postgrad (need I say more
again!), whose sophisticated design
might have won if it had not kept
changing direction and buzzing the
spectators in the Quad. Thanks also to
those who helped organise the event.
LOST AND FOUND
If anyone lost a red address book at
Harlington on Saturday, contact D
Cornwell, Mech Eng 2.
O N E H E A R T - L I N K B R A C E L E T H A S
B E E N F O U N D in the Lower Refectory.
Owner can collect it from IC Union
Office.

