R U G B Y
STREATHAM & CROYDON 2nds vs IC 1st XI:
18-0
This match was expected to be tough and it
lived up to our expectations. The game was a
lively affair played in a hard sporting spirit.
For twenty minutes after the kick off, IC were
on the defence and apart from a few breaks
into the opponents half, most of this time was
spent keeping theStreatham pack at bay. Our
most promising break came after twenty-five
minutes. The ball was won by the forwards on
one side of the field and smartly passed along
the 3's to Dick Pullin, making an overlap on
Thewing, he ran forward and was only
sopped, a couple of yards from the tryline.
The second half, started in a similar fashion
and only after Streatham had managed to
score their points, did IC begin to make a real
impact using our superior fitness, is not
strength, we were beginning to cause them
some problems. There were some good team
efforts with support always their when
needed. The best chance of the match came,
when Will Burgoyne made a swerving run
through the middle ofthe field only to cornea
cropper three yards from the line.
Although IC were unable to put any points
on the boards, the play in the last quarter of
the match was an encouraging sign for future
matches.
EGB
IC 1st XV vs HAPPY HOOKERS (PLUS ONE):
8-32
From the outset this was going to be one of
IC's t o u g h e s t but most i n t e r e s t i n g
confrontations. The Happy Hookers, were a
team of 'outstanding' athletes, who by
persistent pressure (applied to varius
anatomical areas), ran their opposition into
the ground.
Straight from the kick-off, the Hookers (still
happy) collected the ball and Cathy making a
blinding run up the wing and evading six
tackles scored the first points of the day.
From an early point in the match, it was
clear that the Hookers were going to be
lacking in pure brute strength, but they more
than made up for this in brains and
goodlooks, especially Edwina in her (?) deep
burgundy skirt and matching ankle socks.
She (?) made the opposition look decidedly
ugly!
As the match progressed, the Hookers
(becoming happier all the time) began to
dominate all aspects of play (apart from
'groping'. 1st prize Steve Gunn, 2nd prize
Robin Davies). Through some inspired
penalty moves ('I like the Cathy Snook
Special') more tries came from: Cathy Z,
Faye, Shirley, Silvana and a few others. The
only successful conversion attempt was put
over by Silvana (who we 'pinched' from
Milan). The match finally finished with the
scoreline reading: IC 8pts and Happy
Hookers 32pts and 2 pairs of shorts.
The teams abandoned the pitch for a good
'sesh' in the bar.
Happy Hookers: Shirley (Capt), Cathy,
Sue, Cathy (different), Edwina, Silvana, Jane,
Caroling, Barbara, (Killer) Mary, Julia ('Sit on
my head'), Faye, Jenny Lesley and Lynn.
T H A N K YOU LADIES!!
EGB
HOCKEY
MILL HILL vs IC 1st XI: 0-2
I bet you have all been wondering why
there has been no Hockey Club 1st XI reports
in FELIX of late. Well, I will keep you guessing
but here is a full report of last Saturday's
match. This being the fifth match in our
relatively new Middlesex league division 1
and considering all our previous results in
this division, IC went to the field fully
prepared to go for the kill (or be slaughtered
again). The game started with the College
fielding only 10 players because Pete Hughes
was not around (his excuse was that he had a
puncture). However, this did not deter the
players as they went straight in to attack.
After about 10 minutes, Pete Hughes
arrived and did a magnificent strip on the
sideline to change into his playing gear. This
must have distracted the oppositions minds
because they seemed to loose their rhythm all
of a sudden (Oh Boy! It was exciting!).
Having fielded a full side, it became quite
obvius that IC was in full control ofthe game
judging by the super crosses made by
Graham Forbes and the way Tony Ameet Rao
and Martin Shaw kept moving around. Round
about the 20th minute, Tony (Kehar) De Barr
started a splendid move and passed the ball
t h r o u g h Ameet to yours truly w h o
magnificently ran into the D, but was
unfortunately crushed by the two defenders
and therefore got IC a penalty corner. As
usual, Mr Ian Crowe was called to the rescue.
The push was taken by Martin Shaw and
beautifully handstopped by Ameet before
being superbly belted through the keeper's
feet into the net by Mr Crowe. This I must
confess was the goal of the match because
the ball plucked off the toe nail of one of the
defenders on its destruction course into the
net.
The rest ofthe first half saw Mill Hill putting
on some pressure but, they were kept off the
post by Phil Webb and his five aides. The
second half continued in the same fashion
with Tony, Pete and Andy Lilies harassing in
IC LADIES HOCKEY
On Wednesday November 14th, in a cup
match against Kings College we lost 2-1.
After their 13-0 win over Surrey University
the previous Wednesday, IC ladies sat back
and let a cup match slip away from their grasp
in the last five minutes of the game.
During the first half of the match there was
a lot of pressure on IC, even so at half time we
were 1-0 up from a goal by Mary Harrington.
There were several attempts at goal, by IC
during the second half but to no avail. Then
five minutes before the end, Kings broke free,
with only two defenders to beat, they scored.
IC were just recovering from this when Kings
scored again. To win the match 2-1.
Team: Averil Horton, Alex Burnip, Cathy
Crossley, Caroline Brown, Julia Towns
(Capt), Dana Clark, Debra Mendes, Karen
Jones, Wendy Slaughter, Mary Harrington
and Alison Oversby (Umpire).
midfield while Martin Shaw kept running from
one side of the field to the other in an attempt
to loose his shadow (he did nofsucceed). The
second goal of the match came froma free hit
just outside the D which was taken by Tony.
The hit left two defenders flat-footed,
thereby giving Ameet enough space to beat
the goalkeeper before deciding to tuck the
ball away in the net.
After the second goal, Mill Hill seemed to
dig up some hidden strength and again
started putting pressure on the IC defence
until they won a penalty stroke. Before the
penalty was taken, Phil Webb took 11/2
minutes off to say a special prayer which
completely paralized the striker who then
pushed the ball straight to Phil's feet (magic
Phil). After the penalty, Mill Hill still kept the
pressure up and won themselves several
penalty corners some of which were hit out
while the few that were well directed were
dealt with accordingly by Phil.
We did however come back into the game •
with yours truly streaking down the right wing
and Chris Liles flashing down the left wing.
Marin later decided to change places with
Chris who then resumed the job of running
across the field.
With about ten minutes to go, Chris had a
good run down the right wing before heading
for the D (don't ask me how he managed it)
and then got the ball over the keeper into the
net. This goal was however disallowed
because yours truly was said to be offside
(sorry Chris, the ref was wrong).
The rest of the game saw IC increasing the
pressure again with Mill Hill's keeper
narrowly saving two more Crowe Specials.
Overall, it was a fine IC performance and I
can promise you that this team has a very
good future in their new division.
Team: P Webb, I Crowe, A Liles, R Davey, P
Hughes, A Rao, T De Barr (Capt), G Forbes, J
Afilake, M Shaw and C Liles.
Johnson
IC Ladies vs London Hospital: 3-1
Last Saturday IC Ladies took on London
Hospital, last year's runners up'in the league.
To start off with we were at a disadvantage as
they were wearing our colours (we having
had to change our shirts). A few people
mistook their players for ours hence we were
1-0 down shortly after the game started!
IC pulled back not long afterwards with a
good clean goal by Kathy Snook. From then
on IC were in command, spreading the ball
well across the field and not giving London
Hospital many openings. Kathy Snook went
on to score a hat trick making the final score
3-1.
, Team: Fay Hood, Clare Davy, Cathy
Crossley, Julia Towns (Capt), Shirley
Course, Dana Clark, Debra Mendes, Karen
Jones, Kathy Snook, Jan Clarke, and Alison
Oversby (umpire and player).
Julia Towns
17

