HOCKEY: IC 1st
Last Sunday, IC played their first match in
the Middlesex C u p series and as you must
have guessed from the result, it was no easy
match. Spurred on by yesterday's victory
over Mill Hill, IC went in to play this match
with a well renewed enthusiasm, particularly
since this same team annihilated us by
defeating us 5-1 four weeks ago.
The game started with Hayes going right in
to attack and getting the first goal of the
match after only eight minutes of play. This
however did not stop IC because we
immediately counter attacked and after
several good runs, won a penalty corner. A s
usual the trio of Martin, Ameet and lan took
the corner, and another Crowe special
brought IC level. This surprised Hayes and
they again started pressurizing the IC
defence and won several penalty corners and
a penalty stroke of which none found the net.
Just before the end of the first half, Hayes had
another penalty corner and very dubiously
scored there second goal.
The second half resumed with IC going
straight in to attack again and this time won
their second penalty corner of the match
which was superbly put away by lan, drawing
IC level again. Spurred on by this, IC kept the
pressure up and won several penalty corners
which were well kept out of the goal by Hayes
defenders. However, they gave awaya long
corner which was this time taken by Chris
Liles, hand-stopped by Ameet and hit right
into the net by Graham to put IC in the lead for
the first time. With IC now in the lead, their
style of play changed completely with Pete,
Tony, Andy and Roger controlling the
midfield beautifully. With less than four
minutes to the end of the match, Hayes won a
penalty corner and this was put into the goal
bringing them level. The full time whistle
therefore came with both sides having scored
XI vs HAYES: 5 - 5
three goals each. It was then decided to play
an extra time lasting fifteen minutes each
way. S o with weary players, IC again resumed
the battle and got a beautiful fourth goal off
Graham from a move started by Andy and
Ameet from the left. But just before the teams
changed sides, Hayes equalized also from a
penalty corner.
During the second half of the extra time, IC
again took the lead through another Crowe
Special, but again, Hayes drew level from a
penalty corner. Just before full time, we had
two penalty corners but these were stopped
by the goalkeeper and so when the whistle
went, both teams had scored five goals each.
The only other way left then to decide the
match was by penalty strokes. IC scored all
their five penalty strokes, but Hayes only
scored three of their five thereby losing the
match.
This, I must confess was the toughest
match we have played this season and I will
congratulate all the players for holding out.
Actually everybody played well and all
deserve a word of praise, however, a greater
share of the praise should go to Ameet wh
despite threats of having his fingers creamed
still kept putting them down (Well Done
Ameet!) and also to lan Crowe for his specials
(Keep it up, Crowe!).
This victory means that we will be playing
in the next round (no comments).
Thanks to all those wh stood on the sideline
and continuously cheered us on, particularly
Jan, whose beautiful voice kept most of us
going (Thanks Jan!). .
Comment: Another superb IC performance.
Team: P Webb, I Crowe, A Liles, R Davey, P
Huges, A Rao, T De Barr (Capt), G Forbes, J
Afilaka, M Shaw and C Liles.
Johnson
SURF
CLUB
Here we are in the Mech Eng foyer sipping
coffee (?) with the FELIX deadline fast
approaching. Only our red rims and blue
sacks around our eyes give away the fact that
we spent the night in a layby near
Chippenham. This was the grand finale of this
year's surfing. We're certainly going to miss
the surfing now its over for this year (it's like
missing banging your head against a brick
wall).
So far this term we've had three trips. We
had really good surf and weather on the first
one which gave the new members a very good
impression of what surfing is about (although
a completely false one!), despite having spent
seven hours down and seven hours back on
the wooden benches of one of the college's
minibuses (never again!).
The middle trip was to investigate the
possibility of surfing at Swansea. The surf
itself was very good, but the lack of wet suit
hire shops will prevent us from going there.
Not much can be said about this last trip as
most people burst into tears at the mention of
it. The surf was mediocre to lousy, the
weather not much better, the local tribe
hostile and mechanical failures were
abundant. Believe it or not, everybody had a
good time, especially if they were a penguin
or a masochist.
Phil Clifton
Mark Glascodine
(Surfers)
FELIX is published by the Editor, on behalf of the
Imperial College Union Publications Board. FELIX
is printed on the Union premises in Prince Consort
Road, London SW7.
Editor: C R Palmer
FELIX ISSN 0140-0711. Registered at the Post
Office. Copyright FELIX 1979.
IC RFC Captain's XV vs ICU
President's Guest XV: 6 - 24
The long awaited (couple of weeks) and
well attended (approx 20 spectators) match
between two class teams begain at 1:30pm
last Sunday. It soon became apparent that the
weaker loose play of the President's team was
easily outweighted by the ability of the backs,
p a r t i c u l a r l y t h e first c a l s s h a l f b a c k
combination of Dyson (Harlequins) and
Cotter (Waterloo).
However, Steve Townshend's team opened
strongly, unlucky to only gain a 22m dropout
in a goal line scramble. The game settled into
a rountine of 'ICRFC' (for want of a better
name) winning good lineout possession and
the majority of the loose ball but the 'Guests'
backs tackling hard and running the ball at
every opportunity. Indeed, a slip by the IC
backs led to Dave Lilley snapping up a loose
ball and scoring a fine try, which was the only
score of the first half.
The second half restarted with the Guests
6-0 ahead and in a strong position. This was
quickly capitalised on with another Lilley try
after a fine team move involving at least three
propos (?!). Despite the general supremacy
of the backs, the guests forwards never really
contained the rolling mauling of the IC Pack
and with Thomas and Pascoe taking most of
the line-out ball the IC team gave a good
account of themselves.
After another excellent team move led to
an impossible dilemma, Lilley, despite his
better judgement, went over to score a third
try, thus rendering him eligible to buy a jug.
IC then went through a strong patch which
led to a fine team try, scored by ???? ??????.
As the match drew to a close a lot of niggly
injuries began to occur, and it was just after
the statutory Dobknee injury that Larry
Bottomley beat an Eddy Budgen tackle to
score the fourth and final try. Once again
Maurice Cotter produced a magnificent kick
which rounded off a fine and entertaining
performance by him.
The match was played in a good yet
competitive spirit which led to an entertaining
and high standard of rugby. The various team
m e m b e r s t h e n a d j o u r n e d f o r l i g h t
refreshement, 'Rugby Special' and the IC bar
night. A special mention must go to John
Wipp (guest) who stayed to the last.
Thanks to all those who played and those
who watched and 'Yah! Boo! Sucks!' to those
who didn't.
Bill Parry Smith
IC AMNESTY GROUP
It has occured to us that there may be a
number of people in College who would like
to send some seasonal greetings to a prisoner
of conscience somewhere in the world. A s
Cosmos Desmond mentioned last Thursday,
one of the main causes of demoralization for
a prisoner is that he feels that he has been
forgotten. Most political prisoners aren't
major national or international figures; rather
they are unknown people who have become
involved in some way with an opposition
group or have somehow come to the notice of
the local security forces. After arrest, they
have no pressure group actively working for
their release and often remain in prison
indefinately, through default as it were.
It is for this type of prisoner that Amnesty is
particularly anxious. By not allowing them to
be forgotten, their well being is more assured
and their release more likely. Adopted
prisoners who have subsequently been
released have all spoken of how important it
was to them when they learned that people
from other countries were conscius of their
situation. So, if y o u would like to send a card
to someone, please g<3 along to the Union
Office, where we have left a list of addresses
and some cards. Please bear in mind that they
may not be Christians or celbrate Christmas.
Also, no political sentiments please, just
support and best wishes.
Thanks.
18

