WEDNESDAY 14th
HIGHER MINIMUM LENDING
RATE
The Government will announce tomorrow
a sharp rise in the MLR from the present 14%
to 16% or more. This is part of a package of
measures designed to restore the dwindling
credibility of its monetary squeeze.
C A R T E R F R E E Z E S IRANIAN
ASSETS
All assets in cash, securities, land and goods
owned by the Government of Iran, Iranian
Central Bank and 'other controlled entities
remain frozen in the U S under an executive
order by President Carter. According to a
White House statement, this order is in
response to reports that the Governement of
Iran is about to withdraw its funds.'.
RHODESIAN DEADLOCK
BROKEN
A c o m p r o m i s e f o r m u l a drafted by
President Kaunda broke the deadlock at the
Rhodesia Conference. This was accepted by
the PF and it meets many of the British
demands for the transitional period.
THURSDAY 15th
SIR ANTHONY BLUNT NAMED
Sir Anthony Blunt, former advisor on art to
the Queen is named as the fourth man in the
"Philby Affair by M a r g a r e t T h a t c h e r .
Suspicions were first raised about Sir Blunt in
1951 following the defection of Burgess and
Maclean. Thirteen years later he confessed to
becoming an agent of Russian Intelligence in
return for immunity.
BLAIR PEACH INQUEST DENIED
The family of Blair Peach failed in an
attempt to have his inquest heard before a
jury. Mr J o h n Mortimer, Q C , appearing on
behalf of the family, claimed that there was
much evidence to suggest that Blair Peach
had been hit by a police officer using an
object heavier than the regular truncheon.
FRIDAY 16th
PF UNDER P R E S S U R E FOR
CEASE-FIRE
The Rhodesia conference delegates face
intensive negotiations as British officials,
geared themselves for a short, sharp
campaign to bring the talks to a conclusion in
a week. Lord Carrington tabled British
proposals for a cease-fire to be implemented
in seven to ten days. The pressure on the PF
grew as Bishop Muzorewa left for Salisbury to
begin a campaign for his re-election.
US HOSTAGES IN IRAN
The Iranian captors of the 62 American
hostages threatened to take 'dramatic action'
against them if the US allowed the deposed
Shah to move anywhere except to Iran. A
crowd of 25,000 expressed solidarity with the
captors. Ayatollah Khomeini issued a
statement criticising the U S for seizing
'Iranian money like thieves' and the U N
Security Council for refusing to ajlow a
debate requested by Iran.
INFLATION OVER 17%
Inflation climbed past 17% last month. It is
reaching the peak forecast for the early part
of the winter. A new forecast by the
Government due to published next week will
show a decline in inflation. This decline will
be at a rather slower rate than previously
expected.
SATURDAY 17th
ANIMAL SUFFRAGE
Farm animals at a Cambridge research
institute are being allowed to select their own
living conditions. Each pen is equipped with
switches for controlling heat, light, etc. Dr
Barry Cross, director of the institue, calls this
"giving the animals the vote".
BLUNT STATEMENT
Mr Brian Sewell, a friend of Professor Blunt
is quoted to have said "Professor Blunt has no
statement to make. He feels bound by the
Official Secrets Act."
SUNDAY 18th
US W O M A N A N D B L A C K
MARINES FREED
A woman secretary and two black hostages
were released after being kept hostage for
two weeks at the American Embassy in Iran.
They are the only ones to be released so far,
but there are suggestions that all women and
black hostages will be freed. Students have
warned that hostages not set free will be tried
by Islamic courts
MOVE TO BAR AID TO IRA
The Justice Department in Washington
decided to move against the Irish Northern
Aid Committee accusing it of being limited to
the Provisional IRA. In a civil suit the US
Attorney General alleges that the Committee
has failed to disclose the whole truth about its
activities
NERVE GAS FEARS
The Russian General Staff plan to use special
nerve gas against Nato installations, before
resorting to nuclear weapons in the event of
war, according to senior defence experts in
US. Many of the warheads on Soviet missiles
are known to be armed with chemical agents
and some analysts believe that the kill rate of
the nerve gas is higher than that of nuclear
warhead over a given area
MONDAY 19th
LEYLAND WALKOUT
A walk-out by several thousand workers
follows the dismissal of Derek Robinson , the
Senior Shop Steward Convener, at British
Leyland's Longbridge, Birmingham plant. Mr
Robinson was dismissed for 'deliberately
undermining the comapany's recovery
programme" by publishing a document
calling for 'disruptive action'. The dismissal
occurred at disciplinary proceedings where
three other senior stewards who took part in
the production of the document were given a
warning that they too face dismissal if they do
the same again.
EEC CONCERN
At a meeting today of E E C Finance
Ministers it is clear that with the exception of
Luxembourg no E E C government is ready to
reduce the expected British net contribution,
to the E E C of £1.2 billion by more than £350
million. In return for this small concession
Britain may be expected to seel its North Sea
Oil at below market prices to member
countries. Government officials are reported
to be concerned at the extent of the gap
dividing Britain and other E E C governments.
SHORTAGE OF PHYSICS
TEACHERS
At a Royal Society Conference today, it was
said that a major retraining programme for
biology teachers is urgently required to cope
with the serious shortage of physics teachers.
Figures that the number of physics teachers
entering secondary schools this year is well
below half of the figures for five years ago
Only 256 physics teachers qualifiedk this
year compared with 823 biology teachers.
TUESDAY 20th
US EMBASSY HOSTAGES
Mr Andrew Young, the former American
Ambassador at the UN, is to fly to Tehran to
talk with the authorities about the hostages.
The US served notice that it might seek action
under the U N Charter. As this announcement
was made, Ayatollah Khomeini said there was
evidence proving the remaining hostages
were spies and predicted a scandal when they
went before a revolutionary court.
BL STANDS FIRM
BL said that under no circumstances would
it reconsider the sacking of Derek Robinson,
the communist leader of the company's shop
stewards. More than 18,000 B L workers went
on strike in protest and more stoppages are
expected at the night shifts.
ARMED GROUP SEIZES MECCA
MOSQUE
The Great Mosque in the holy city of Mecca .
was seized by a group of 60-100 Shi'ite
Muslims. Reports said that 30 hostages had
been seized and one former government
official had been killed. The true reasons for
the seizure are not yet known.
6

