CITY AND GUILDS
As this is Rag Week, the time since the last
article has been slightly hectic. Tuesday saw
our UGM with the completely unfair trial of a
nameless exec member and some fun.
Morphy Day followed with a slightly
outnumbered (where was everybody?)
Guilds contingent putting up a good fight,
although we lost the oar. We managed to
cover res and mines in a thick and smelly
layer of shit and other disgusting bits and
pieces. Some enterprising people stole rcs's
fish guts, while they weren't looking.
The tea in Harrods took place as ususal.
Thursday saw the res smoking concert, with
us taking part in a sketch which was fun
although we don't always dress up in
women's clothing.
The Rag Procession was on Saturday
afternoon with our float being built using the
Guildshow bits and a few extras. We collected
£525.791/2 with the bottle of wine going to Jo.
The exec got wet when their raft capsized on
Sunday although no one lost their voice this
time.
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
TONIGT is Carnival, so if you haven't got a
ticket come along and pay on the door, if you
get there early. Be sure not to miss this event.
SUNDAY 2nd is the Guilds Rugby Sevens
at Harlington. There is free transport leaving
at 10:00am from Beit Arch. Everyone is
invited to enter a team and there is also a
ladies competition. Team names which may
include one guest should be handed to Mark
Jenner or in the Union Office. There will be
cups and liquid prizes and in the evening, for
the players and supporters (as many as
possible should turn up), there will be hot
soup, rolls and a film.
There is a trip to see 'The Life of Brian' on
TUESDAY 27th. Tickets are available from
the Guilds Office.
It has come to my notice that there are
several posts vacant as official Publicity
Officer's groupies. Applicants should have
extreme patience, be able to put up with
grumbling and above all female. Applicants
to C&G Union Office. I don't want any of Jo's
old ones.
Cheers
Bryan
WANTEDS
S O M E O N E T O FIX M Y
MIKUNI 18-32 twin-choke,
two-stage carb. Worshop
manual but no tools, so I can't
do it myself! Financial reward
to anyone who can put it right.
This is urgentl Contact Dave
Ghani, Civ Eng 3, internal
3240.
C O M P L E T E H E W L E T T
P A C K A R D M O D E L 25, 24C or
33. Any reasonable price paid.
D R Groves, Min Tech 1.
After three and a half years, JEZ is back on
the road. Having had a small adjustment
made to her engine during last week. She was
fired for the first time late on Saturday night.
The next day, Jon Hall et al took her out for a
short trip, and by all accounts riding on the
back of a 1916 Dennis fire engine is
something different.
The was perhaps the highlight .of a very
successful week for RCS. From Morphy Day
where a combined operation with RSM
defeated a disorganised Guilds' force to
Sunday's bar night where we outsang,
outchanted and outnumbered Guilds (where
were the Miners), everything was very well
attended.
The Ents committee richly deserve to be
congratulated for Thursday's excellent
smoking concert. Equally successful were
Saturday's procession and the raft race which
we won again. Although in the case of the
latter if the Exec had gone any slower they
would probably have ended up in the water
with the intrepid Adrian Black who was
swimming across the Serpentine for Rag.
Going to smoking concerts or attending
bar nights is obviously not everybody's cup of
tea and suggestions for any other activities
that could be organised within the framework
of RCS are always welcome.
By the time you read this you will no doubt
be fed up of Rag. Don't worry you've got a
whole week off before the year collections on
1st December. This is the last RCS collection
of term and speculation is rife as to who can
challenge Life Sciences 1 for the barrel that's
offered to the most successful year group.
Rumour has it that Maths 3 (sic) are trying
hard. Even if yu haven't been on any Rag
stunts yet, your social representatives will ber
stunts yet, your social representatives will be
more than pleased to see you. Even if you can
only give an hour or two, it could help change
a child's entire way of life.
Work hard and enjoy yourselves,
Nick Watmough.
Anyone interested in the
Human Rights Motion to be
pu,t before the next IC U G M on
November 27th is welcome to
have a copy of the United
N a t i o n s D e c l a r a t i o n of
Human Rights. Copies are
available from the Union
Office or Tim Hillyer, Maths 3.
Nominations are required for
the following posts: Hon Sec,
Asst Sec and one committee
member for ICU OSC.
The elections will be held on
Thursday 6th December. Meet
in the Union Office at 1:00pm.
Nominations to be given in by
5:30pm Tuesday 4th Dec.
MINES
Since last week's report, life has slowed
down a little in Mines. On Friday there was the
Rag and Drag Disco, coinciding the Royal
School of Mines Association's 95th annual
dinner. Not a few minesmen went to the latter
and thoroughly enjoyed the dinner, speeches
and fraternisation (yes, the bar for it lasted till
2:00am as well) afterwards.
Saturday was the Rag Procession. Simon
would like to thank all those heroes who came
and helped him build the float in record time
(under two hours) and also all the miners who
came on the actual procession and collected.
The security guard in Mines had a shock in
the afternoon: he was confronted by Bernie
Pryor marching past his desk with a platoon
of large gentlemen in dark blue uniforms who
had, as usual, helped admirably and were
going for a couple of bevies with Bernie.
Thanks to the bods who bore the raft on
Sunday and helped to build it on Saturday -
we were lucky to come third.
Last Tuesday, 18 minesmen went to see the
London Metal Exchange in action. It was
certainly interesting and surprisingly rowdy.
There may be a further visit next term for
those wh signed up too late this time and
perhaps a lecture by one of our guides on the
LME and the economies of metals in general.
FOR THE FUTURE
MONDAY 26th NOV: MIN & MET SOC -
Lecture by Stan Foster ARSM on Coal
Worldwide in MLT 6:00pm.
TUES 26th NOV: MET & MAT SCI S O C -
Lecture by Prof Pashley, FRS (he's Head of
the Dept) on Crystal Structure from Electron
Microscopy in G20 at 6:00pm, followed by the
Hot Pot Supper (tickets £1.50 from the
committee).
DEC 9-14th: RSMU FOREIGN STUDENTS
WEEK - It's nearly on us, so if you want to go
on any of the visits, sign up on the lists
outside G20. Exact details will be coming
soon.
DEC 14th: MINES BALL - The event of the
year. Double tickets £17.00 from RSMU
Office or social reps.
This Saturday volunteers are
needed to help amuse the kids
who will be occupying the
ICWA Lounge during the
'Latin American Women's
Conference' to be held at IC
this weekend. Anyone
interested contact John
Whitehouse in the ICCAG
Room, Top Floor Union, today
at 12:30pm for details.
8

