10
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
W
ell, can you be-
lieve it, the aca-
demic year is al-
most drawing to a
close.. Not quite, of
course! The summer months are roll-
ing in (well, not if this week’s weather
is anything to go by) and there is plen-
ty going on around the city for you
thrillseekers to kick up your heels to!
First of all, our ever-intrepid ex-
plorer, searching for new heights of
cultural interest - Caz Knight - has dis-
covered, in the most unlikely of places,
a pseudo club-theatre-bar under the
arches of London Bridge. The Shunt
Lounge, as it is called, is a maze of tun-
nels under the station (entrance liter-
ally outside the tube barriers) and on
most Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays
you can find a number of musical and
theatrical themed events. There seems
to be, considering the atmosphere, a
certain grittiness to the shows - not
uncommon in London spots off the
beaten track - but certainly a breath of
fresh (or musty even) air from the rigid
seating of theatres in the West End.
Avid arts readers will have read Miss
Knight’s review of the Shunt Collec-
tive’s production of Money last week,
which is a scarily immersive theatri-
cal experience located inside a three
storey steel box inside an old tobacco
warehouse down the road from the
Lounge. The run has been extended to
September so be sure to catch it after
you are free of exams and labs. The
London Bridge/Borough area is also
an excellent place for a twilit summer
evening’s drinking and is all but free of
the heaving tourist crowds so common
to Imperial’s neck of the woods.
Caz dominates the arts section this
week with the second part of her Shunt
adventure. The dark, cool musty vaults
are the perfect escape for when the
weather gets too hot to handle.
And with summer also comes the
much longed for opportunity to read
for pleasure. My co-editor ponders
the virtues of e-readers versus the
more traditional paper pages format of
books in her opinion piece on the op-
posite page.
One more felix left this term so
please send any of your reviews into us
while you can!
Culture in the vaults
Caz Knight goes deep under London Bridge to the Shunt Lounge
The lazy, hazy,
crazy days of
summer
RosieMilton
RosieMilton Arts Editor
Shunt Lounge is open Thursday,
Friday and Saturday. Entry is 10GBP,
5GBP for students.
L
ate night bar. Dungeon.
Nightclub. Art space. Laby-
rinth. The Shunt Lounge
is the creation of Shunt, a
company formed by ten art-
ists keen on fusing the live event with
its audience. The Lounge is a platform
project for artists to showcase their
works and for the public – art connois-
seurs and ignoramuses alike – to come
and enjoy them close up.
Metres away from the West Corn-
wall Pasty Co., a vending machine and
the tube barriers in London Bridge sta-
tion is a doorway. The door staff are
welcoming, stamp your wrist and ush-
er you into Shunt’s cool, vast interior.
High-ceilings, exposed brickwork and
a damp, musty smell make you realise
that you have stumbled into a place like
no other.
Under each of the arches, which ex-
tend left and right of the lounge’s long,
wide corridor, are big empty spaces
which provide the venue for every pos-
sible type of art form.
Each weekend a new programme
of live music, performance art, visual
art, DJs and creative workshops is put
on meaning that every weekend you
visit will surprise you with something
different. Last weekend Lautes Licht
(German for ‘loud light’) invited view-
ers to play director by adjusting the
lighting on its actors, thereby control-
ling which one of them gets to speak
and how loudly. A previous weekend
a classical music ensemble played a
piece of music by the Tudor composer
Thomas Tallis – making one feel even
more as if in a Tudor banquet hall.
After the classical music was over the
space was cleared to accommodate a
dance floor as a DJ began to spin reg-
gae beats. A few weekends before that
it was pumping techno.
More permanent features include
Bob Aldous’ moth: a large moth-
shaped mirror illuminated every twen-
ty-odd seconds by a strobe light; the
airplane cinema screens where you can
escape under large headphones and
watch short films from the Raindance
Film Festival; a reading room filled
with dusty books; small and stowed
away little wine bars. Outside the toi-
lets stands a Narnian looking tree
while the toilets themselves are home
to a large shark. The bouncers are few
and polite.
Shunt lets you explore art in a social
setting, but if even this unassuming
and pioneering art seems too preten-
tious and erudite for you, then head
straight down to the end of the vaults
where a large bar is filled with a huge
range of locally sourced beers and ci-
ders, cocktails, spirits and wines. A
haphazard mix of candlelit tables,
chairs, sofas and stools abound so you
are guaranteed not to spend the night
standing awkwardly by the bar shout-
ing over the din, unlike most watering
holes on a weekend in London. Perfect
for the claustrophobic or those who
value personal body space.
You will see no sign of white-shirt
clad males and Saturday night on-
the-lash testosterone here: only an ex-
tremely laid back atmosphere and cli-
entele where you are free to explore as
much or as little of the art as you like.
Shunt promises to delight and enthrall
the curious and cultural, anyone crav-
ing the unusual or simply anyone who
wants to drink and make merry.
Round the corner from the Shunt
Lounge in Bermondsey Street, the
Shunt Collective (Shunt’s theatre com-
pany) are staging their adaptation of
the nineteenth century French novel
L’Argent. The show has been extended
to June 26 and makes for a perfect in-
terlude to an evening spent getting lost
in the vaults.
Intricate lighting elevates the ‘dungeon-like’ atmosphere to modern halls of stylish colour; alcoves revealing passages
The Shunt Lounge’s inconspicuous entrance just outside the tube barriers
An example of a theatre spectacle, sprung up in an alcove of the Lounge
THE ARTS

