11
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
How do you like it: hard or soft?
Books vs. Nooks. Caz Knight weighs up the new fangled toys that are e-readers and why paper is better
Apple’s latest technology: the iPad. A larger, heavier iPhone...with no phone function
F
ive hundred years ago the
number of books in circu-
lation exploded. Johannes
Gutenberg had just invent-
ed a mechanical printing
press and with it followed the Print-
ing Revolution. Three hundred years
later the Industrial Revolution gave us
mass production and extrapolated the
number of books further. However,
it has taken just under five centuries
from Gutenberg’s contraption to now
for literacy to get to the level where
most of the population (in the devel-
oped world, anyway) read, or have
once read, books.
Cult leader Steve Jobs paints quite
a different picture with his proclama-
tion that “people don’t read anymore”,
explaining Apple’s absence, hitherto,
from the e-reader market.
Despite this, 130,000 new titles
are published every year in the UK
(190,000 in the USA), not to mention
titles that already exist and have exist-
ed for hundreds of years. Apparently,
people do still read. The question is
how?
With the flurry of touchable touch
screen gadgets released in the last year
or so the big question has been wheth-
er “hardware” (printing) will die out,
usurped by digital, “software” formats.
True, more people are accessing news
via their mobile phones instead of get-
ting their fingers smudged with ink
(although I am not sure if this is still
an issue in 2010), but how many have
actually abandoned paper pages for a
screen?
E-readers: The Basics
The latest piece of superfluous technology to hit the
market is the 500 dollar iPad, which also serves as
an e-reader. The battle of the e-readers now seems
to be between E-Ink and iPads/iPhones.
E-Ink is the provider of the screens for readers such
as the Sony Reader, Amazon’s Kindle and Barnes &
Noble’s Nook. The point of the E-Ink screen is to
minimize strain on the eyes that comes from star-
ing at a backlit screen for too long. Sony’s Reader E-
Ink screen does not have a backlight and thus needs
to be read in the light like any normal book we have
become accustomed to. The 200 pound Reader was
the first e-reader on the market released in 2006. 4
years later and its rate of adoption has been poor
compared to most high technology offerings in the
21st century. The Reader needs to have e-books
uploaded to it after downloading from the 45,000
titles available at Sony’s e-book store (rather like
downloading then uploading tunes from the iTunes
music store to an iPod).
Amazon’s Kindle arrived later but decimated
Sony’s hopes of saving face after its Walkman lost
out to Apple in 2001 when the iPod was released.
Not only does the Kindle have wireless connection
to Amazon.com – so you effectively have access to
a bookstore whenever and wherever you are – but
there are 145,000 titles to chose from. Amazon of-
fered its Kindle at an astounding $9.99, making up
its lost profits in sales of e-books from its website,
so no wonder it did better. Its open source software
also means you can view titles bought from a range
of devices, including iPods and iPads.
Publishing giant Barnes & Noble have entered
the e-reader race with their $249 Nook, which
has had extremely positive reviews already.
Both the Nook and Kindle weigh in at around
the 300g mark which is dainty compared with
the cumbersome iPad. The E-Ink screens
are ideal for beach reading as they lack
said backlight and are sparing on battery
consumption, whereas the LED screens
of Apple devices chew through power
and also make reading in locations outside
living rooms very tricky because of their
glare-prone screens.
The iBooks store on the iPad does come
with the advantage that you can select the
font size, which is ideal for the average e-
reader demographic (high earning 34-55
year olds according to TechCrunchies) who
are beginning to “see” their eyesight failing
them. Then there is the obvious advan-
tage of having thousands of titles at your
disposal and all packed into a few cubic
inches of metal and plastic.
Are real books simply better?
Perhaps it is because the majority of book buyers are the Baby
Boomers, now all over sixty. This older age demographic is less
likely to buy e-readers: with their approaching retirement it is
likely that the Boomers will buy even more books with more time
on their hands, thus potentially slowing the predicted demise of
printing.
The hefty price tags on any of these readers (bar the Kindle) also
make them a luxury afforded only by the well-off. After spend-
ing upwards of $200 on an e-reader you do not even benefit from
buying books at reduced prices – you pay the same for e-books as
you do paper books so there isn’t really any chance of recouping
your investment.
There has been much talk and excitement over the possibili-
ties of e-readers being used for educational purposes, but reading
from a screen may even inhibit note taking and retention. Last
autumn, students at Ivy League Princeton rejected a Kindle pilot
program for academic titles on those grounds.
Their practicality for use by anyone under 16 or so is pretty low
and I doubt any e-reader can give to a small child any of the joy
that a large, brightly coloured picture book with chewable paper
pages does.
Perhaps the reason why I will never be buying an e-reader is the
trouble I have reading off screens which are extremely tiring on
the eyes and also a lot less immersive. Somehow words on a screen
seem less real, more abstract, than ink on paper. One can connect
more with a book you feel the pages of in your hand. With an e-
reader you do not get that feeling of accomplishment as you see
the pages left to read dwindling as you approach the end. Reading
real books also differentiate your reading experience from sim-
ply trawling the internet from your mobile or reading emails and
texts.
Next is the issue of environmental impact. Printed
media apparently costs us 125,000 trees per year.
E-readers may save paper but because manufactur-
ers have not revealed how resource-intensive their
gadgets are to produce and ship, their environ-
mentally friendly rating has been hard to estimate.
There is also the electricity used to keep them
charged which doesn’t come without its own share
of CO2 emissions.
Books are not simply the sum of the information
and words they contain. They can be a collector’s
item, an antique. They look pleasing and satisfy-
ing on your shelf; a physical representation of your
journey through literature. The feel of the actual
book and how the pages turn completely affect the
reading experience and nothing beats the musty
smell of second hand books (a very much acquired
taste).
Books don’t mind if you spill tea on them. Nor
do they mind the occasional blim-burn. The blank
pages at the book’s front and back do wonderfully
in toilet paper emergencies.
Yes, 145,000 titles available in e-format on Ama-
zon is staggering and probably more than any per-
son can read in a lifetime, yet there are still many
multiples more available in paper.
One still sees an overwhelming majority of pa-
per books on planes, tubes and trains. Yes, it is a
nice thought that you are carrying around a small
library in your pocket but books are not like music,
it is not that beneficial to have more than a couple
on your person at any given time: you tend to read
only one book per (tube) journey whereas with
songs, it is now almost crucial that we can shuf-
fle about among thousands of tracks at a press
of a button.
After we have finished reading an e-book
there is no option of passing it from friend to
friend or re-selling it to earn a bit of money.
We can’t spend a rainy afternoon wander-
ing between the shelves of a bookstore,
reading the books for free with e-books.
Numbers of e-readers sold thus far vary
hugely and are very inconsistent with one
figure claiming that 22m were shipped in
2009, yet another estimating that only 6m
will be sold in 2010. No doubt, technolog-
ical progress (no matter how redundant)
is essential but I still don’t have to like it.
I feel sad when I hear that printing will
one day be dead. When I am old will I have
to switch to e-readers against my will? Or
will I have to spend hours hunting for my
choice of titles in hard to come by second
hand bookshops? Let us hope not.
Plain old paper?

