12 felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
MUSIC
Music Editors:
Music Editors: Alexandra Ashford, Kadhim Shubber & Luke Turner
Alexandra Ashford, Kadhim Shubber & Luke Turner
Online Editor: Christopher Walmsley
Online Editor: Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com www.felixmusic.tk
Primavera Sound 2010 - The greatest
festival of our generation
Right:
Monotonix take
crowdsurfing
to a whole new
level of awesome
Miguel Angel/
Flickr
Below:
Left, Ben Frost,
Right, The xx
Keith M Jones/
Flickr
Think of music festivals, think of Read-
ing, and Leeds, and Glastonbury, and
Bestival, think of the mud, think of
having to stay in tents, think of all the
stalls selling clothes that your auntie
would probably call “funky/trendy/
hip”. Think of the annoying fairground
rides, people in “wacky” costumes,
and the “yummy mummies” with their
kids. But above all, think of having to
spend most of the festival watching
bands like The Kooks and Razorlight
because they are the best thing on at
that time.
Everything bad about festivals,
Primavera Sound is very much not.
There’s no mud, there’s no fairground
rides, there’s no one there for “the fes-
tival experience”. It might even take
the trophy for the best music festival I
have ever attended. Not only are there
seven stages with music constantly
from around 6pm to 5am on Thurs-
day, Friday, and Saturday (leaving
most of the day for sleeping and en-
joying the wonderful sights and tastes
of Barcelona), but there are bands
at other venues around the city on
Wednesday and Sunday too, including
free gigs by Real Estate, the King Khan
& BBQ show, and Dum Dum Girls
in the Joan Miro park; and a closing
party with Jeffrey Lewis and the Black
Lips at the Apollo.
Never before have I seen a festi-
val line up full of bands I either re-
ally wanted to see, or hadn’t heard of
(and most of those were the Spanish
bands). To name a few, Pixies, Pave-
ment, Broken Social Scene, The Fall,
Built to Spill, CocoRosie, Best Coast,
Japandroids, No Age, Grizzy Bear,
Dum Dum Girls, Jeffrey Lewis, Black
Lips, Beach House, Atlas Sound, Gan-
glians, Wire, Liquid Liquid, Fuck But-
tons, Health, Orbital, Panda Bear, The
XX, Les Savy Fav, The Big Pink, Surfer
Alex Ashford
Alex Ashford Music Editor
Music Editor
Blood, Harlem, Lee “Scratch” Perry,
and so on and on and on. Each night
was rounded up by live performances
and DJ sets from electro heavyweights
like Diplo, Fake Blood, and the Bloody
Beetroots.
My fondest memory of the festi-
val will undoubtedly be standing on a
grassy hill, overlooking uncountable
thousands of people and dancing non-
stop seeing Pixies. Pixies are a band I
got into when I was around 14 or 15,
at that time when your friends would
let you burn a CD they got from their
older brother and it was music like
you’d never heard before, something
totally different from the UK garage
and American pop of the radio, some-
thing that blew your little teenage
mind. Pixies are one of the few bands
I liked then and over the years, I’ve
only grown to like them more. Kurt
Cobain is often quoted as saying he
“was basically trying to rip off the Pix-
ies.” Every song they played was a Pix-
ies classic, from “Where is My Mind?”
to “Debaser” as well as covers of the
Jesus & Mary Chain and Neil Young’s
“Winterlong”. They may now be in
their mid-forties but they can still play
with the togetherness and quality they
are renowned for, and the enthusiasm
that can only come from being under
the radar enough to have never created
the dangerous rock-star egos that sadly
happen to so many other bands.
If you have heard of CocoRosie, I
would absolutely recommend that you
see them live. Music that on record is
quiet, delicate, and beautifully surreal-
istic, when heard live in person is like
falling down a rabbit hole and becom-
ing completely immersed in booming
unearthly landscapes of melodies and
hip-hop beats as Bianca and Sierra
Casady float energetically around the
stage. The benchmark of indie bands:
Broken Social Scene was as wonderful
as my nostalgia could have hoped. I
didn’t think I would, but I dived right
in to the arty indie-pop euphoria of it,
dancing around and singing my heart
out. A few hours later, Stephen Mal-
kmus took to the main stage and the
band that Broken Social Scene owe so
much of their sound to, early 90s lo-fi
pioneers Pavement, played their fuzzy
chilled-out rock to a crowd of tens of
thousands of fans. Finishing their set
to the sound of “oh my god, oh my god,
oh my god, oh my god, oh my god, oh
your god, oh his god, oh her god” (the
lyrics of “Shady lane”) sung by every
person there.
This is not a festival for everyone,
but that is why it works so well. It’s a
festival that draws in indie music en-
thusiasts from across the globe (you
couldn’t turn your head for the sound
of different accents). When every
single person there seems to be in a
perpetual state of disbelief about how
good the line up is it creates a collec-
tive feeling of belonging and satisfac-
tion that you just will not find at the big
festivals where the bands are this year’s
chart-toppers and they take second
place to the idea of “a festival”. That is
fine for most people, but for music lov-
ers, this is so much better.

