15
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tweet @felixcatnip
Tweet @felixcatnip
Drunken-Mate Photo Of The Week
Didthisrevellerspillintothetoiletsastheywerebeingcleaned,ordidthecleaners
juststartworkaroundthebodyonthefloor?It’sarealchicken-and-eggsituation.
Got a picture of
your mate being
an absolute waste
of oxygen? Well,
get your camera
out and email your
drunken mates
to catnip.felix@
imperial.ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
ANOTHER YEAR DOWN:
AWESOMEADVENTUREORAGONISINGANGUISH?
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text: 07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
Overheard At Imperial...
How Will You Keep
Cool This Summer?
Everyone else has been stocking their fridges with ice-cream
and stuff. Not me. I’ve been excavating the freezer space so I
can crawl inside come July.
First Year MechEng
It’s not a problem for me. I live in Wales.
Second Year Medic
A guy on my floor tried freezing his beer. The can exploded
and then froze over everything. It was all pretty funny until I
got a hangover from my chicken kievs.
First Year Biochemist
Is it any time time between 12am and 12am on a day ending in
Y? I make that Pimm’s o’clock!
Third Year Biologist
I’ve stitched special compartments into my clothes for a series
of cheeky ice-packs. Of Pimm’s.
Second Year Chemist
A: I love Biochemistry.
B: More than sex?
A: Aren’t they the same thing? – I knew I chose the wrong degree.
We will get into the finer points of teaspoon design later. – I can’t wait!
If you look at the molar mass of nitrogen, it’s slightly different from nitrogen. – You’re not looking at oxygen, are you?
If you do not understand this, please go home. – They only tell us this now?!
A: What were you doing last night?
B: I was with your mum (Oooh!).
A: No, I was with her. – And suddenly it’s even more disturbing.
I actually know the cabinet better than I know the England football team. – On the up-side, they’ll probably stay in longer anyway.
Is your life so dull you’re eavesdropping on others?
Post your listenings on the “Overheard at Imperial” facebook group
A Thank-You From
Magnus Winklefilch
S
ir, a few weeks ago an epistle of mine was printed here,
and I can’t even begin to tell you how much it meant
to me. I cried for two days. I was so pleased to see my
real name printed, my noble family name – Magnus
Winklefilch, the name which has been passed down in my
family from father to son like a pair of pants, since my great-
great-great-great-grandfather. Because, I’m afraid to tell you, I
used to send a lot of letters. Oh yes, and I would have carried
on but they kept calling me Maggie Winkie.
Can you believe it?! Well, it was a curse I tell you, and I
stopped sending letters right off. But since my arrival at
university, I’m pleased to say no-one knows about the whole
‘Maggie’ episode and I’ve been able to start all over again.
None of my buddies at the Autistic Club have ever called me
Maggie! I don’t have autism actually, but going to the club
makes me feel good about my social skills, and it’s not a lot of
effort because we don’t like meeting up much.
So, thank you again, sir. With all my heart, in loving
kindness, and with deepest sympathy,
Adieu.
Magnus “Maggie” WinkieFinkie.

