18
FILM
Film Editor
Film Editor Ed Knock
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
4.3.2.1 is a chauvanistic wet-dream
fantasy of gorgeous girls running
around in their panties stumbling into
ridiculous situations involving their
amorous lesbian lovers. Apparently
this is Noel Clarke’s response to recent
criticism of the lack of convincing fe-
male parts in his films. I hate to imag-
ine the carnage caused by him and Jo
Brand crossing paths.
Clarke is the currently the darling of
grimey British drama after the highly
successful Kidulthood and Adulthood
films but his latest offering is a move
towards a more stylish thriller and he
fails miserably. The grittiness is re-
placed by the oh so fashionable fast
paced editing and a headache inducing
story structure.
‘4 girls, 3 days, 2 cities, 1 chance’
states the movie’s tag line if it’s title
was puzzling you. The immaculately
bonneted Tasmin Egerton plays the
confident Cassandra, a wealthy piano
virtuoso who spends her free time
at Westfield with her friends Ker-
rys (Shanika Warren-Markland), the
aforementioned sassy Brazilian lesbian
and Joanne, a homesick American who
has found herself working in a conven-
ience store. Ophelia Lovibond com-
pletes the quartet as Shannon who is a
troubled girl because she wears a parka
and too much eyeliner.
We are briefly introduced to the girls
and made aware of a diamond heist
before being whisked away to follow
each characters separate adventures
over the next three days. This is where
the film falls apart. We first experi-
ence Shannon’s three days courtesy of
a cameraman with Alzheimer’s. The
handheld camera is in vogue these
days but it is used so excruciatingly
badly that it’s jittery nature only em-
phasises the confusion of the plot.
By time the story moves onto Shan-
non, the audience is completely clue-
less about the film and likely disinter-
ested as a result. Shannon quickly loses
her clothes in New York and her part in
the film seems solely to look fantastic
in underwear. Kerrys’ section is no bet-
ter and her ‘You go girl!’ attitude is just
4.3.2.1 is a countdown for a big misfire
Director Mark Davis, Noel Clarke
Screenwriter Noel Clarke
Cast Emma Roberts, Tamsin Egerton,
Ophelia Lovibond
4.3.2.1.
EdKnock
EdKnock Film Editor
ADVERT
Save the Children Society street collection
We had 14 volunteers, collecting between 10.30am
and 6pm, outside
the Chelsea FC grounds on a match day.
Chief promoter – Mr Robin Pitt
Promoter – Miss Lauren Waterman
Type of fundraiser – Bucket Collection with Street
Collection Permit
Area – Hammersmith & Fulham
Charity – Save the Children UK (Charity number
213890)
Date of collection – 27th March 2007
Amount collected and distributed to the charity
- £683.24
Expenses incurred - £0 (volunteers paid their own
travel expenses)
a shameless excuse for some steamy
sex scenes with her girlfriend.
It’s only in the final quarter of the
film does the film’s plot resemble any
cohesion. The very loosely interwoven
story lines miss any of the subtle ef-
fectiveness of similar alternative plot
structures like Memento.
The cast’s performances are aver-
age, which isn’t helped by an ordinary
script. However the biggest atrocity is
saved for Noel Clarke who portrays an
idealised version of himself, I couldn’t
believe my ears when one character
declared “He probably has a really
big cock!” This arrogance is annoying
prevalent throughout the film and it
really made me despise it.
There is some comic moments from
a cameo by Kevin Smith who high-
lights the uncomfortable reality of be-
ing an overweight American in a plane
seat. Unfortunately his role can’t res-
cue what is essentially the cinema ver-
sion of Clarke’s sexual fetishes.
4.3.2.1. is not a modern re imagining
of the Italian Job with head strong fe-
male characters as it might have aimed
to be and lacks any of the ‘Cool Britan-
nia’ of Michael Caine in Get Carter.
Stay well clear, for all the camera tricks
and pouting girls, it is inevitably a very
boring piece of cinema.

