19
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM
Inside Hollywood: how films are made
Development
The producer is the overall architect of the film and is
in full control of putting a film into development.
The first job of a producer is to find a story for his
film. This can be from a novel, play, a remake of a
previous film or often a completely original idea.
The next step is to prepare a treatment of the
story, this is usually a short synopsis of the film
including characters and themes.
The treatment is then presented to a screenwriter
who will spend the next couple of months preparing
a full script. Alternatively the producer may buy a
script which has already been written by an aspiring
or established writer. With the script in place the
producer will ‘pitch’ his film to a movie studio or
independent financiers. If the pitch is successful, the film
is ‘greenlighted’ and once all the necessary contracts are
signed, the film moves into pre-production.
Pre-production
Before the film can start shooting, a production office is
established to manage all aspects of its production. A
storyboard is constructed from the script outlying how
every scene should look. A budget is assigned to the film
and then the cast and crew are hired! The most important
members of the crew are as listed below.
Director Director of Photography
Sound Engineer Wardrobe and makeup
The director is the ‘author’ of the
film and it’s his vision that guides its
outcome. The director controls most
aspects of the film’s production at this
point.
Also known as a cinematographer, the
DP is probably the most important
crew member after the director and is
responsible for the camera and lighting
crews.
An important role often looked
over. The continuity of the actors
appearance is meticulously
maintained.ss
Production
Once all the cast and crew have been hired, the filming can commence. Usually
one scene is shot per day as it takes a lot preparation and can sometimes
involve many takes. The crew set up their equipment whilst the actors are made
up and dressed in the wardrobe department. When everyone is ready, the
director will start filming. In Hollywood there is a specific procedure to filming
takes as follows:
• The Assistant Director (AD) calls “picture is up!” to inform everyone a take
is about to be shot.
• Once the cast and crew are ready the AD calls “roll sound!”. When the
sound engineer is happy he calls “sound speed”.
• The AD calls “roll camera” and the cameraman again replies “speed” when
the camera is running.
• The ‘clapper’ calls “marker!” and snaps his snapperboard shot. The AD may
call “action background” if extras in the scene are required.
• The director then calls “action!” to start the take and “cut!” when it’s
finished.
• This repeated for any additional angles required for the scene
• When the director is happy with the scene he calls “that’s a wrap!” The crew
will then “strike” and take down the set
After the scene is shot the director and crew watch the “dailies” in the evening.
Once the whole film is entirely finished it is known as “in the can” and usually a
wrap party is organised.
Post-production
After the film is in the can it is handed over to the editor. The editor first
prepares a “rough cut” of the film with the director. The rough cut is then
developed into a “fine cut”where the scenes and shots are improved to run
smoothly into each other. When the cut has been approved by the director and
producer it is “locked” and no more changes are made to it.
A locked picture is then given to the supervising sound editor to create the
soundtrack for the film. A final sound mix is produced from the dialogue, sound
effects and music which is then combined with the picture to create a rough
product of the film. The film then undergoes various techniques to produce the
polished cinema worthy edition.
The final film is shown to the producers and previewed by selected audiences. It
may be decided to re-edit or re-shoot some of the scenes after these screenings.
Eventually the finished film is duplicated and sent to the distributors. All
of the big Hollywood studios distribute their own films but they also buy
independently backed films and distribute them as well. The distributors
ensure that the film has maximum marketing and that it is shown in as many
cinemas as possible for all our enjoyment.
The sound engineer is in charge of
the audio in the film either on set or
recorded in a studio.

