20
FASHION
Fashion Editor
Fashion Editor Kawai Wong & Saskia Verhagen
Kawai Wong & Saskia Verhagen
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
A Lesson In
Glamour
SaskiaVerhagen
SaskiaVerhagen Fashion Editor
about how consultants ought to worry
about their patients’ health, not their
students, who they ignore most of the
time – and the one time they are ac-
knowledged, it’s to be chastised like a
child about how they look.
Well, duh. The consultants care
about how they appear to their patient.
It’s the first point of judgement, and
thus the first point at which the patient
decides whether this is a doctor they
believe will make them better.
Clearly a doctor with a smart, well
put-together student standing behind
them looks better than a scuffed, un-
shaven mug with a battered notepad,
tripping over his shoelace.
I mean, who would you prefer?
And the theory transfers to all cor-
ners of any professional industry. Peo-
ple are judgemental. All this rubbish
about “inner beauty” is irrelevant in
the interview setting. Ten minutes to
demonstrate who you are and the easi-
est way to make an impression is put-
ting on a smart, well-cut suit or dress
– not only do you look better, you feel
better.
F
or those regular readers of
the fashion page, I am the
columnist (now promoted to
editor!) unremittingly bang-
ing on about glamour, taking
time over your look and having pride
in your appearance. It’s my bête noire,
especially as a student at an institution
such as Imperial, where it seems that
taste and fashion are utterly superflu-
ous concepts to most students.
And yet, every now and then, I see
a fellow style-maven cross my path. A
vintage tea dress here, a purple patent
McQueen Elvie bag there – I know
you’re out there. And a knowing smile
crosses my face as we nod in mutual
recognition – “yes, I see you. Are we
the only ones?”
It’s crucial. As a medical student, I
know that every day I was being judged
on what I wore in to hospital. Whilst
certain boys were reprimanded by
their consultants for unironed shirts,
scuffed shoes and general uncleanli-
ness, I wondered whether they realised
quite how ridiculous their predica-
ment was. They bitched and moaned
Ode To Joan Holloway: Mad Men Icon
M
ad Men brings me a
much-needed week-
ly dose of aesthetic
pleasure. The daz-
zlingly styled show is
set in 1960s New York in the fictional
ad agency Sterling Cooper and is sup-
posed to revolve around Don Draper,
an advertising executive with a shady
past, married to an icy blonde goddess
and prone to infidelity – but as far as
I’m concerned, Joan Holloway steals
the show.
Voluptuous – adjective 1. relating to
or characterized by luxury or sensual
pleasure. 2. (of a woman) curvaceous
and sexually attractive. This, ladies
and gentleman, is Joan Holloway. With
classic pin-up beauty – porcelain skin,
blue almandine eyes and full lips – she
is the queen bee office manager of Ster-
ling Cooper, ruling over rows of typing
secretaries with a sweet smile and a
knowing eye. Her mere presence steals
hours’ worth of stares wherever she
goes, her undulating Titian-red curls
bouncing to the rhythm of her swingy,
confident step – the walk of a woman
fully aware of her devastating effect
on anyone with a Y chromosome. Her
mantra: if you want the girl next door,
you should go next door.
Her shape is triumphantly feminine
– rounded edges, curves where they
ought to be: she is the essence of what
it is to be a woman. As such, her style
would appeal only to those design-
ers who adore and worship the female
form: Alber Elbaz, Roland Mouret,
Dolce & Gabbana. Her dresses and
skirt suits hug every corner, (you un-
derstand finally what the body-con-
scious movement was all about) de-
fined by the classic, high 1960s waist,
and in confident jewel brights – cherry
red, emerald green, cobalt blue – not
a taupe or oatmeal to be seen. She is
modest too; skirts fall to the knee,
cleavage is a rarity – too easy – and
heels climb only to an unassuming 2”.
Compared to Betty Draper, (wife of
main character Don) the Grace Kelly-
esque ice queen housewife with end-
less hours to preen and primp her-
self into picture-perfection, always
in wasp-waisted pastels, pearls and a
prim cardi, Joan is a warm, savvy ca-
reer girl. Her work uniform serves
more as asset-management than any-
thing else – for she does have assets
any woman would be proud of – and
her taste and style is the envy of all the
women in the office. Seductive without
being obvious, she is the office femme
fatale, but at the same time, a world-
wise big sister to the other girls of the
office, the only one amongst them who
is respected amongst both the male
and female staff.
In an episode in the second season,
each secretary is categorised as either
a Marilyn Monroe or a Jackie Kennedy
in a campaign for Playtex. When asked
which kind of woman Holloway is, one
of the ad execs answers, “Well, Mari-
lyn’s really a Joan, not the other way
around” – yes, where Marilyn wig-
gles, Joan writhes; where Marilyn was
a dumb blonde, Joan is deeply auburn;
where Marilyn would tentatively dip
Saskia Verhagen pays tribute to her girl-crush, the ferociously glamourous siren played by Christina Hendricks
her toe into the pool, Joan will dive in
– Joan Holloway is the lioness where
Marilyn is the kitten.
She is sharp, rapid-fire, bold and
intelligent. During the series she has
a long-running affair with one of the
firm partners, Robert Sterling, which
“She steals hours’
worth of stares, her
undulating Titian-
red curls bouncing
to the rhythm
of her swingy,
confident step”
ends when Sterling has a heart attack
(if anyone could induce infarction in a
man, Joan could). Joan is a thirtysome-
thing woman torn between her desire
to be a comfortably married woman
and her disgust at the prospect of in-
stead becoming a bored housewife.
Her independent spirit coupled with
the misogynistic times leaves Joan in
a something of a quandary; but with
a fabulously written script filled with
cutting one-liners, she is nothing less
than a joy to watch.
This is Woman: what Plato would
have called his Form; what Jung would
have called his Archetype. Yes, it
would seem that I have an uncontrol-
lable crush on the woman. Well, so
does everyone else. She is beautiful,
confident, emotionally fraught and not
without her fair share of knocks in life,
but with such infectious joie de vivre
that she is difficult not to love.
Anna Wintour didn’t get to where she is today wearing scuffed shoes

