22 felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
TRAVEL
Travel Editor
Travel Editor Dylan Lowe
Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
M
y heart dropped as
the machete fell and
cracked its victim
wide open.
The kid retrieved the
coconut and emptied its contents before
swiping his knife against another fruit,
an exotic one I failed to identify, and de-
voured it. He hoisted his arm in my direc-
tion; I declined the offer with a grin and
received a look that spelt “suit yourself”.
“Nem blong yu?”
There was only so much Bislama ‒ Van-
uatu’s dialect that is in fact a form of Pidg-
in English ‒ I could memorise from the
in-flight magazine. Asking for someone’s
name happened to be there somewhere in
my memory.
“Nem blong mi Joe.”
I swallowed hard when the machete
found its mark on its latest target.
“Knife blog papa blog yu?”
He laughed as if it was the most ridicu-
lous idea he had ever heard.
“No. Knife blog mi.”
I recalled our time together as I fixed
my gaze on the camera monitor. The most
striking feature in the photograph, that
smile. The one captured and frozen with-
in a millisecond, desynchronised from the
natural progression of time. What does
this represent? Joe, my one-time Maleku-
lan guide, only seven years of age, posing
with a machete the length of his torso,
smiling ‒ what do I see behind those rows
of white teeth?
A blessed innocence and pure glee?
A coerced happiness and theatrical
cooperation?
I dropped the pen, turned up the kero-
senelampandrubbedagainstmyeyes.My
neighbours, a plump Italian man named
Luigi and his wife, were arguing. Outside
of the guesthouse, neatly placed by the
shores of Rose Bay, waves clashed against
boulders of petrified coral. Abandoned
by my muses, I laid aside my notepad and
stared at the ceiling.
And it struck me: why was I there in the
first place?
While flights depart for Tanna and Es-
pirito Santo daily from the ni-Van capitol
Port Vila, and planes bound for Pentecost
packed during the naghol season, between
April and June, the sparsely-scheduled
transport exchange between Malekula
and the mainland, much more utilised by
locals than foreigners, often leaves tourists
wondering whether or not the endeavour
would be worth their while.
Which, thankfully, leaves Malekula less
frequented than its counterparts ‒ though
losing out in the tourism arms race is by
no means an indication of tedium. Quite
the contrary, its succulent history of can-
nibalism riddles the island with relics
and ex-sites of murder, and empowers its
locals with tales of masochism and, well,
gluttony. What had terrorised sailors
and diverted many navigators has now
claimed the title of being Malekula’s main
attraction.
The day after my arrival, I got to flex
my muscles on a jungle trek deep into the
mountains, dextrously led through the
treacherous terrain by my guide George,
at which I was promised a history lesson.
Not until the teachers show up, though.
From behind an inconspicuous pile of
rubble, George pulled out the conch and
effortlessly sent resonances across the
hills. Some ten minutes passed with little
words passed between us.
“You’re lucky, cannibalism was abol-
ished yesterday”; so many Fijians I had
encountered, prior to my visit to Vanuatu,
would joke. At that very moment, being
stalked from behind the bushes by would-
be predators and consumers was hardly
unimaginable, and hardly satirical.
Hunting weapons, tribal costumes,
canapés of human meat on wooden can-
nibal forks, none of those the chief’s son
and his companion greeted us with. They
were raggedly clad, torn t-shirts and dusty
pants, armed only with machetes and
warm handshakes.
Launching straight into the narrative,
with George translating, they identified
the outwardly purposeless debris as stone
ovens, drinking bowls, cooking surfaces,
mirrors ‒ basins filled with water that re-
flected one’s face, painted prior to the cer-
emonious slaughter.
An open ground which surrounded a
banyan marked the spot where, tied to
the tree and macabre fate pending, the
daunted victim overlooked a procession
of kava-crazed feasters, who would fanati-
cally dance for an indefinite length of time
before the inevitable deed took place.
With ease, the chief’s son wedged his
hand through a crack, under a burial site,
and retrieved a skull. It belonged, he ex-
plained, to the son of an ancestral chief-
tain of his.
“What about the bones of those who
were eaten?” I enquired though having al-
ready half-guessed the answer.
“Scattered all over, since they were dis-
graced and did not deserve a proper bur-
ial,” the ni-Van replied, via George. “The
bones are also used by those important
in the tribe as jewellery, as trophies, to re-
mind their enemies of their might.”
How glad I was to have crossed their
paths not with hostility, nor in the wrong
era.
I could imagine how much disappoint-
ment the locals have seen, throughout
their careers as couriers of the cannibal
site: lacking elaborate exhibits, clearly-
annotated and excessively educational
display signs, “authentic” attire donned
by my hosts and emanating captivation I
can only describe as corny and cheesy, the
commonmoderntouristswhofrequented
Occidental museums and historical sites,
who would expect similar services even
deep in the forest, were up for a moan.
While I enjoyed the site’s idyllic charms,
the vivid edifying annotation and the urge
to knock my imagination into full gear,
many may beg to differ ‒ if they hadn’t first
finished complaining about the half-day-
returnwalkthatledthemto“nothingness”.
Though this wasn’t alone result of rapid
progression of the increasingly demand-
ing tourism industry ‒ it was also due to
the genuine lack of interest in the tourism
industry, or the exploiting of, as displayed
by many Malekulans.
*
Kastomdances‒kastomaBislamaword
derived from ‘custom’ ‒ represent the psy-
cheofeveryni-Vantribeandareconstitut-
ed by their geography, climate and social
values. The ones I saw on Malekula were
“Fundamentally, no matter how much they consume from
the outside world, no matter how much they understand the
mechanics, the Malekulans are confused. ”
those of appreciation, of delight to a boun-
tiful harvest, traditionally performed dur-
ing the gathering of local produce.
As far as what I witnessed in the present
day was concerned, delight and appre-
ciation were but shortages of expressions
on the men’s faces. As they marched out,
unclothed except for their nambas ‒ or
penis sheaths made of leaves ‒ they broke
intowell-rehearsedroutinesthatappeared
more rewarding to the ignorant foreigner
and his camera, and less fulfilling to the
dancers’ sense of self satisfaction and their
need to give praise.
It wasn’t that these people were nat-
ural-born un-enthusiasts. I managed to
recognise a few individuals within the
entourage with whom, over lunch consist-
ing of rice and corned beef/tuna, I had ex-
changed anecdotes with earlier.
George asked me what I thought of the
kastom dances. I managed a shrug.
“It used to be better, Gibson.” He devel-
opedthehabitofaddressingmeas‘Gibson’
‒ don’t ask why. “Now, bad management.”
Perhaps. Though, personally, I found
‘management’ of indigenous customs that
are commercialised, a very Western con-
cept indeed, much more sentimental than
hearing a bad management had ruined the
performance. The kastom dances, treated
like a means of income, seemed to be los-
ing their traditional values.
This wasn’t the only trace of Western
influence on the island. Further down the
road from Walarano, the village adjacent
to Rose Bay, rusty poles were erected to
serve as goals; barely having scrubbed off
the makeup the boys flaunted their foot-
ball skills. The village shop, ever an empo-
rium of fascination to the local children,
soldtinnedmeatandotherbasicimported
goods. Reggae remixes of pop hits burped
out from every jeep stereo. Even kava,
while achieving customary reverence
in Fiji, was here passed through a meat
grinder instead of the more orthodox, and
respectable, preparation methods.
Not that Malekula had a desire to oust
all of its traditional values.
I encountered a hunting party, complet-
ed with machetes and belligerent dogs, as
I descended from the cannibal site. They
were searching for pigs: despite the pres-
ence of paper money, pigs and their tusks
remain to this day as Vanuatu’s most im-
portant form of currency. A family trav-
elled by foot, seizing a broad leaf to shield
themselves from the raindrops.
Fundamentally, no matter how much
they consume from the outside world, no
matter how much they understand the
mechanics, the Malekulans are confused.
Whatever Western mind set, ideals, at-
titudes that came with the merchandise,
what islanders could grasp are mostly
those of materialism.
Back in Walarano, men fired up the
enormous village oven to roast coconuts.
School fees season loomed, and a ship-
ment of copra were expected to be deliv-
ered soon. Sure it would bring income,
they confessed, though as to why the for-
eigners would pay for coconut oil they did
not know.
Likewise with tourism. The Malekulans
are tremendous in their understanding of
hospitality; however, especially when they
are relatively new to the concept of leisure
The Curious Case
Tourist on Island
One year on, Dylan Lowe recalls his visit on
interprets the hidden metaphors that depict
to tourism

