23
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk TRAVEL
Linstead Hall seeking a new subwarden to join a highly motivated and warm wardening team. The
successful candidate should be friendly, responsible and committed to students welfare and pastoral care.
Informal enquiries can be sent to:
linstead.hall@imperial.ac.uk
travelling, they have yet to comprehend
the motives and habits behind a visitor.
This is particularly true with the rise of
fast-food style tourism, pre-planned daily
schedules and rigid punctuality, where the
paying customer gets the hassle-free con-
venienceandguaranteedservitudemoney
can buy.
I had sat down with my new friend Fla-
vian, an inhabitant of Walarano, engaged
in the laughter-packed conversation, when
Luigi and his wife arrived, demanding
kava. I took a swig of kava, emptied the
cup’s content in a few gulps, and watched
the Italians pacing back and forth, sweat-
ing, as the locals casually prepared the
kava roots with their trusty grinder.
Five minutes later, he sent George to the
‘kava bar’ ‒ merely a shed where the villag-
ers hang out ‒ to chivvy the production
team.
Ten minutes later, shattering the tran-
quillity of Walarano as well as disrupt-
ing me midway through a ‘story’, with his
raised tone.
“Is it so hard to get a kava here? In Tanna
we got our kava in one minute ‒”
His voice trailed off in an aggressive
cough. Recovered, he returned to his heav-
ily-accented volley of abuses before telling
his wife that they were leaving. The scare
tactic was to little avail, since the locals
could only laugh ‒ so could Flavian and I.
Defeated, he gingerly crept into a corner,
duly sat in silence with the wife until his
request was delivered before him.
Flavian asked me why Luigi would lose
his rag over something petty as a bowl of
kava.
“I don’t know. Maybe he’s in a hurry ‒
maybe he’s late for chickie chickie time?”
The circumstances under which I met
Flavian were truly serendipitous. Seeing
a sign advertising wood carvings I wan-
dered into Walarano to satisfy my curios-
ity. We talked, enclosed by Flavian’s carv-
ings that I confessed to have no interest in,
and he asked me for the favour of checking
his application for an Australian visitor’s
visa. I obliged, and our acquaintance was
born.
He was a family man, married with an
adorable daughter. By no means hamper-
ing his ambitions though: over dinner in
his house he explained to me how he had
hopedtoconstructseveralguesthouseson
the land beside the sea, which he owned.
Flavianwasamongstthoseoftheyoung-
er generation of Malekulans who recog-
nised the significance of tourism in im-
proving their living standards. I admired
his aspiration ‒ after all, all he desired
were a better upbringing for his daughter
and more forgiving conditions for a peace-
ful life.
I muttered a few words of encourage-
ment on my way out, bade him good luck
with the challenges he faced. It left me
pondering: with more Luigi’s and Flavian’s
transforming the island, for the better or
worse, how different will I find Malekula
on my next visit? Will it boast Hilton-style
professional performers, smiles feigned
and stiff like wax, there to appease an au-
dience of pillagers whose enjoyment and
cultural learning will not compensate for
their mess?
I certainly hope not.
e of the
d-time
Malekula Island, and
the island’s response

