3
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Maths library move condemned
Unhappy students criticise College’s quiet plans to relocate the Maths library. Matt Colvin reports
T
he Department of Math-
ematics has suffered a
backlash from students
over plans to move its col-
lection of books from the
Maths Library to the Central Library
as part of a college-wide scheme. The
news has particularly angered post-
graduate students across various de-
partments, who are dubbing the move
as “academic vandalism”.
These plans form part of the ‘Single
Sequence Project’, a mass reorganisa-
tion of libraries across campus, which,
according to its website, aims to ‘make
it easier to find what you are looking
for’.
Steven Johnston, a fourth year phys-
ics PhD student and self-proclaimed
regular user of the library, disagrees
with the closure, scheduled for 16th
July 2010, arguing that, “when the li-
brary closes and the books are merged
into the Central Library my trips for
books will take about 20 to 30 minutes
and, based on my experience, I serious-
ly doubt I’ll find any central librarian
who knows anything about the books
they hold.”
Mr. Johnston is also critical of the fact
that, “the first I heard about the closure
was from a fellow student. There’s been
no consultation with library users out-
side the Maths Department. I’ve seen
no posters about it; received no mass-
emails. It feels as if (the Department is)
trying to close the library by stealth.”
Attempting to quash these concerns,
the Department has firmly defended
its position on the issue, releasing the
following statement: “Several depart-
mental collections have recently been
relocated to the Central Library, with
the implication that the majority of the
College’s collection is now available
on open shelves 24 hours a day, with
dedicated subject librarians available to
give advice on the resources that allow
academics to connect to the literature
larly among the postgraduate students
who naturally use these resources on a
regular basis.”
However, he disagrees with Mr. John-
ston’s statement about “stealth” tac-
tics, believing that, “it was well known
across the student body that this was a
bit of inevitability”.
The Department attempted to
judge the reaction of its own students
through a vote conducted by e-mail,
but only those students currently on
BSc or MSci courses. This saw a dis-
tinctly low turnout of only 33%, with
only 55% of these voters agreeing with
the plans to move the collections to the
Central Library. Mr. Bird claims that
these results show that the plans are
“relatively well-received”.
Those students contacted to take
part in the survey do appear to tenta-
tively back the scheme, with one Maths
fresher remarking that, “the plans for
(the Maths Library) do sound promis-
ing. To me, it seems like a practical so-
lution to maintaining its primary pur-
pose, whilst ensuring that resources are
still available to be used and perhaps
even more conveniently placed in their
new location.”
With an adamant Maths Department
setting about to change the status quo
with the backing of relatively apathetic
students, it appears increasingly likely
that unconsulted postgraduates across
campus may have to take a leaf out of
Mr. Johnston’s book and protest the
situation.
in their field.
“The area that would be released by
moving the collections to the Central
Library is allowing us to develop a flex-
ible working space that will involve
both collaborative working areas, quiet
space for contemplative study and en-
able the Department to increase its
computing provision.”
Charles Hyde-Andrews-Bird, De-
partmental Representative for Maths,
firmly agrees with the Department’s
standpoint, claiming that, “The sub-
ject of the Mathematics Library is
one which has been discussed at great
length across the Department over the
last few months.” He also acknowledg-
es the anger felt by some postgradu-
ates, stating that, “the relocation of
the books and journals to the Central
Library or conversion to e-format was
quite an unpopular decision, particu-
The Department of Mathematics plan to relocate all books to the Central Library, whilst keeping the space open for study
Royal School of Mines to regain Union status
D
uring an otherwise dull
meeting of central Un-
ion Council, which dis-
cussed the hack bible
that is the Imperial Col-
lege Union Constitution, one paper
caused members to stir from their day-
dreams about the bar downstairs: The
paper was written by Deputy President
(Finance and Services), Danny Hill,
and supported by members of the
RSM and CGCU exec. It successfully
sought to change the RSM executive
from a Clubs and Societies Board to a
Constituent Union of Imperial College
Union, though the paper must yet be
ratified by the Union Executive Com-
mittee and will not come into effect
until the 1st August.
Other examples of Clubs and Socie-
ties Board (CSB) include the Athletic
Clubs Committee and the Recreational
Clubs Committee; their primary inter-
est is to manage the activities of their
constituent clubs, particularly in terms
of finances and resource management.
The classification of the Royal School
of Mines (RSM) as a CSB occurred
around eight years ago when College
restructured departments, effectively
combining the City and Guilds College
and the RSM into the Faculty of Engi-
neering. The Union followed College
in restructuring, with the Royal School
of Mines Union (RSMU) being swal-
lowed by the City and Guilds College
Union (CGCU). It was assumed that
over time the RSM would effectively
die out, with the name maintained for
the sake of historic clubs only.
However, as stated by RSM president
Henry Debens, the RSM have failed
to disappear, instead “the RSM has
proven itself time and time again to be
one of the, if not the, most active and
dynamic student bodies within Impe-
rial College Union and an entity which
simply does not fit the description of
a Clubs and Societies Committee on
many significant levels”. This senti-
ment was echoed by many Council
members. Primarily, it was noted that
the RSM hold numerous social, wel-
fare and academic events each year
and that the actions of the exec are
largely in the interests of all students
registered on the courses that formed
the RSM at its time of abolition.
Mr Debens has the proud position of
being the RSM President under whom
the status of the RSM as a Constituent
Union has been reinstated, he told fe-
lix: “The move allows for the students
of the RSM to separate themselves
from being directly under the umbrella
of C&GC, their supposed rivals, and
for the development once again of an
independent mentality. It should also
prove to be a step which will hope-
fully re-ignite and enhance this once-
celebrated rivalry, whilst also serving
to safeguard many other aspects of the
RSM’s rich history.”
Three years ago, a similar, but wid-
er reaching, proposal was brought by
then Deputy President (Finance and
Services), Jon Mathews as well as Dan-
ny Hill. Having failed in his first bid to
return the Union status of the RSM,
Mr Hill was thrilled to have his paper
passed this time.
He told felix: “I am thrilled that at
long last the Royal School of Mines
will be recognised by Imperial Col-
lege Union in the way it should be - as
a Constituent Union of ICU. Unlike a
faculty Union (E.g. City & Guilds Col-
lege Union), the RSM won’t provide
welfare and academic support to its
students, however, it shall continue to
co-ordinate student activities targeted
at the students of the Royal School of
Mines, and be the governing commit-
tee of the RSM clubs and societies.
With RSM having many traditions that
are older than Imperial College itself,
this is a vital step towards preserving
the Royal School of Mines identity and
traditions.”
Just as it does in the Union bar, the Royal School of Mines will stand alongside College’s Faculty Unions from next year

