felixSport
Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
11.06.10
Rajiv Bhar Cricket
W
ednesday dawned
bright and sunny,
bringing a sense
of optimism to the
Imperial 1st XI
as they travelled away to face Barts
in their fourth ULU league fixture.
Having won the previous three ULU
matches, Imperial looked to continue
their undefeated run by sending forth
one of their strongest line-ups this sea-
son with president Andy Payne, strike-
bowler Viran Parmar and middle-or-
der batsman Iain Stobbs all returning
after the conclusion of their exams.
Confidence high, banter bouncing
back and forth, Imperial arrived at the
Chislehurst ground to find no oppo-
sition waiting. Eventually, an under-
manned Barts team trickled in, request-
ing that we send one team member to
help make up their numbers in the field
before commencing play. Wish granted,
Imperial won the toss and elected to bat
first on a pitch that wicket-keeper Adam
Hugill described as a ‘road’
. Needless to
say, a high total from Imperial’s much
vaunted batting line-up was expected.
Unfortunately, that is precisely what
did not happen. Quick wickets fell at
the top of the order with opener Ani-
rudh Sompali gone after three balls,
knicking a wide delivery through to the
keeper. His partner Matt Tarr followed
him soon afterwards, playing at one too
early and lobbing a catch to square-leg.
The pitch, it was found, was quite soft
underneath due to the rain the previous
day and so the ball slowed down off the
pitch and did not bounce. Captain An-
kit ‘the anchor’ Patel went in to steady
the ship and he played some delight-
ful cut-shots before miscuing a pull
straight to mid-on.
At 31-3 things were looking grim,
but Iain Stobbs (22) and Viran Parmar
(21) formed a neat little partnership,
bringing Imperial beyond embarrass-
ment, before Parmar unluckily got a
thin edge on a short and wide delivery
that was asking to be hit. After that,
batsmen came and went and it was only
thanks to a counter-punching innings
A mixed innings
Cricket Men’s 1st XI continue their medic bashing, whilst the Women’s 1st XI fall at the hands of the Essex
Imperial College Men’s 1st XI
– 122 all out
St Barts Medical School XI
– 83 all out
Imperial won by 39 runs
Celeste van den Bosch Cricket
Imperial College Women’s 1st XI
– 103 all out
Essex 1st XI
– 129 all out
Imperial lost by 26 runs
from Muhammed Ali (27*) that Impe-
rial limped to its total of 122 all out after
30.3 overs.
However, with the sun still shining,
a good tea and a surprise visit from
former president Shiraz Sabah, Impe-
rial took to the field with a lot of energy
and optimism. The bowlers proceeded
to get to work. Captain Patel (8-2-15-
2) set the tone by ripping the opening
batsmen’s off-stump out of the ground
and together with Viran Parmar (8-4-
13-1), they formed a lethal partnership;
bowling maiden after maiden and tak-
ing the odd wicket to reduce Barts to
31-3 after 16 overs.
Muhammed Ali (7.1- 2-20-3) and
Andy Payne (7-0-33-3) then looked to
finish up what the opening bowlers had
started. Ali bowled with great effort and
accuracy to tie up one end, while Andy,
slightly less economical, took wickets by
utilizing his height to great effect and
bemusing the opposition batsmen with
his slower bouncer.
Gradually, Imperial, with their tight
fielding and superb catching, tightened
the noose around Barts with Ali fit-
tingly delivering the knockout punch by
wrapping up the match with two wick-
ets in his last two balls to leave Barts all
out on 83.
A
fter being chauffeur
driven to Essex by the
co-captains, Imperial
Women’s 1st XI cricket
team was ready to play
their second match on the warmest
day of the year. Captains Priya Shah
and Kushani Ediriwickrema lost the
toss to the Essex captain who decided
to bat first. With some apprehen-
sion the eight women who were able
to make it, in this busy exam period,
took to the field to take on the top
team in the league. Celeste van den
Bosch and Kushani Ediriwickrema
opened the bowling and it soon be-
came evident that the Essex team had
reversed their batting order. Therefore
Priya Patel and Chandni Nakum were
given the still shiny cricket ball and
each bowled a full 7-over spell as Im-
perial’s tactics were adjusted to keep
the “lower-order” opening batswomen
in. There were short celebrations over
Priya Patel’s first wicket, a run-out and
an amazing catch from wicket keeper,
Mithila Patkunan. Siân Fogden and
Priya Shah also bowled several overs
with one run-out occuring in Shah’s
last over. The last three overs were
bowled by the opening pair to end Es-
sex’s batting innings with a total of 129.
After tea, Mithila Patkunan and Tara
LaForce set out to open the bowl-
ing with confidence and with the aim
to go slow but steady. Unfortunately
both the openers were soon out with
only 4 runs off the bat between them.
Despite the loss of these early wickets,
Priya Shah and Siân Fogden were able
to setup a good partnership until Priya
Shah was bowled by the Essex captain.
A second partnership between Siân
Fogden and Celeste van den Bosch re-
sulted. However when attempting to
increase the run rate, Siân Fogden was
unfortunately bowled as well. The final
three wickets of Kushani Ediriwick-
rema, Priya Patel and Chandni Nakum
fell quickly leaving Imperial with only
103 runs. Though a loss, the Imperial
women’s team are already focusing on
next year’s cricket season.

