4 felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
Deputy President quits to go on holiday
Deputy President (Welfare) John James will miss important handover period as he goes on a “once in a lifetime” trip
I
t has been announced this week
that the Union’s Deputy Presi-
dent (Welfare), John James, has
handed in his resignation to go on
a holiday in which he describes as
“once in a lifetime.”
His resignation will take effect from
the 28th of June, meaning he has hand-
ed in his four week notice at the end of
May.
His absence is to be felt during a cru-
cial handover period in July when the
current Sabbatical Officers lead their
successors through the first month of
their job. Incoming Deputy President
(Welfare) Vicki Masding has expressed
her discontent at the situation John
James has left her in.
“It’s definitely not ideal. I think it’s
going to be very daunting without his
guidance,” she said.
James stated that he felt “guilty” about
leaving a largely inexperienced Masding
to a “comprehensive handbook” and her
own devices as soon as she starts her
role.
“I do feel guilty, and I have the Union’s
The world beyond College walls
By Tom Greany
Iran Spain
F
rench President Nicholas Sarkozy and German Chan-
cellor Angela Merkel wrote a letter this week to Eu-
ropean Commission President José Manuel Barroso
arguing that the commission should ban naked short
selling of European Union member country government debt.
Last month, Germany also banned the practice on debt, credit
default swaps, and equity of governments and certain financial
companies. That move was controversial at the time, creating
tumult in markets and exposing differences in opinion on the
matter between various E.U. governments. Naked short selling
is the process of selling a security without actually owning it. It
alters the market price of the security while the transaction re-
mains open until the seller completes the sale by delivering the
promised security. Critics of the practice claim that it removes
transparency of markets and allows for gross manipulation.
Merkel and Sarkozy claimed that restricting naked shorts will
remove market turbulence; skeptics claim that many investors
seeking stability have already left the markets in question and
that any turbulence is derived instead from political turmoil.
Europe
O
rganisers of Madrid’s Gay Pride parade have
banned Israelis from entering the parade due to
the flotilla debacle. The Spanish Federation of
Lesbians, Gays and Transexuals argued that be-
cause Tel Aviv local authorities have not condemned the Israeli
military’s handling of the flotilla incident, Tel Aviv revellers
will not be allowed to join in the festivities and that it would
be “barbaric” to allow them to do so given the situation. Tel
Aviv residents wishing to join the celebration were dismayed
and upset by the announcement, saying that it is not the re-
sponsibility of local authorities to make statements regarding
foreign policy and went on to criticise the Spanish for siding
with pro-Palestinian causes. Eytan Schwartz, a Tel Aviv spokes-
person, stated, “It is shameful that they should join with pro-
Palestinian and fundamentalist groups which are not exactly
tolerant with homosexuality.” Schwartz stated to the Guardian
that he hoped to to organise a trip for the Spanish Gay Pride
organisers to Gaza, where he claims that Hamas is not tolerant
towards gays and transexuals.
T
he United Nations Security Council placed new
sanctions on Iran this week as a result of its nuclear
program. Twelve of the fifteen members of the coun-
cil voted for the measures, which were not signifi-
cantly greater in severity than previous sanctions, while Brazil
and Turkey voted against them and Lebanon abstained from
voting. More significant perhaps than these measures are the
subsequent sanctions promised by both the United States and
the European Union, which were contingent upon the U.N.’s
approval this week. Also notable was the fact that the Obama
administration was by and large the largest proponent of these
sanctions. For the majority of his tenure thus far, U.S. president
Barack Obama has pursued a strategy of enticing Iran to cease
its nuclear programme through incentives instead of sanctions
or hostility. The sanctions place a ban on selling large weapons
to Iran such as ships, aircraft, tanks, missiles, et cetera in addi-
tion to language about banking and the energy industry. Back-
ers of the sanctions do not expect them to place much pressure
on Iran but instead to perhaps encourage the country to return
to negotiations.
best interests at heart,” he assured felix.
James plans to use July to travel
around Egypt, and stated that it was an
opportunity he couldn’t miss out on.
“It’s a once in a lifetime trip with my
best friend. He’s a Medic and this is the
only time we can both do it.”
He also argues that July’s handover
period isn’t the most important part
of the Sabbatical role saying that it is
a “low period of requirement” which
mostly involves formally meeting dif-
ferent members of College.
“Of course it would be better if I was
there, but it isn’t the be it and end all of
the role,” he said.
He has also confirmed he will make
up to three weeks available in August
once he returns to answer any ques-
tions from his successor. Concerns were
initially voiced in the last Council meet-
ing of term that Masding’s Biochemis-
try exams finish only three days before
James is due to leave for Egypt.
The Union also plan to enlist the help
of Hannah Theodorou, Deputy Presi-
dent (Education & Welfare) 2008-2009,
during James’ absence.
Masding herself put note to the fact
she has little prior experience for such
an important role.
“I’m inexperienced anyway, so I prob-
ably need more help, but I’m getting less
than the standard,” she said. “A hand-
book just isn’t as engaging as having
someone there for me.”
Although speculation has been ban-
died around the Union since he handed
in his notice, some of those working
closest with him failed to be informed
immediately.
Jonathan Silver, Deputy President
(Education) was surprised to hear about
John James at the start of his sabbatical year during Freshers’ Week
Dan Wan
Dan Wan Editor-in-Chief
Next year’s
Deputy President
(Welfare)
Vicki Masding
said John
James seemed
“sheepish“ when
he announced
his resignation
to her
his office-mate’s resignation as late as
last week.
He had been informed after a felix re-
porter assumed the situation was com-
mon knowledge amongst the current
Sabbatical team.
Ashley Brown, Union President, was
resigned to what he described as an
“unavoidable situation”
, suggesting that
James had been adamant he would be
going on holiday in July whether the
Union liked it or not.
“I’ve made sure that no Sabbs are al-
lowed to take holiday during the hando-
ver. It’s saving us money by him resign-
ing. We don’t have to pay his wages,”
stated Brown.
When probed whether he thought
James’ actions were irresponsible,
Brown refused to comment, but echoed
Masding’s concerns by calling the situa-
tion “not ideal.”
“We’lldoourbesttodealwiththehando-
ver without him,” Brown concluded.
Current Union
President Ashley
Brown has
assured felix that
any problems
caused by James’
absence during
handover will be
minimised the
best they can

