Gilead Amit discusses snobbery – in all its forms
6
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
Charlotte Morris
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
I
f you don’t know what snobbery
is, I’m afraid I’m going to have to
look down my nose at you.
Oh dear. What have I done?
I’ve begun an article with a
quasi-self-referential comment. Gra-
cious. How feckless of me. Next thing
you know, someone from the Meta of-
fice will be along to reprimand me for
not being fully in line with their pre-
dictions about acceptable syntax, and
for being altogether too brisk, violent
and north-easterly.
As a result, I would advise all but
the most highly-trained of logicians
to keep my writing at arm’s length.
And not only because it then becomes
easier to read. You see, I am a noted
violator of the accepted laws of logic.
Some of the greatest minds in the field
have tried to persuade me to see oth-
erwise, but I simply kan’t. The winds
of common sense just russell through
the hairs on my whitehead, leaving me
none the wiser and no more in zeno.
And speaking of zenos, I had al-
most forgotten to look down mine for
your seemingly wilful disregard for
the definitions of such basic words
as ‘snobbery’. Tchah. Pff. Hunh. Ng. I
can guess where you went to school.
But what am I saying? What a horren-
dously snobbish observation to make.
Do us both a favour and forget I ever
mentioned it.
The received wisdom (ha! Chalk
that one up alongside ‘military intel-
ligence’ and ‘compassionate conserva-
tism’ as one of the great oxymorons of
the age) is that haughtiness is a one-
way street. That the omnibuses of so-
cial hierarchy must follow each other
in single file along the boulevards of
condescension.
How wrong these received sages are.
Snobbery is the great social rounda-
bout, where every traveller both fol-
lows and precedes every other, de-
pending only on their choice of exit.
In general, of course, snobbery is per-
ceived to be a question of birthright,
breeding, and bank balance. Despite
this view’s preponderance, arrogance
and hauteur are by no means the sole
prerogative of the privileged classes.
Snobs, as I’m sure we are all aware, ex-
ist all along the social sliderule.
The intricately balanced and scrupu-
lously maintained laws of below stairs
etiquette in the past century’s grand-
est houses would have caused a blush
of shame to mantle their lords’ and la-
dies’ cheeks. A housemaid would nev-
er dream of eating at the same table
as a household butler, while the very
thought of an under-footman sharing
a meal with the housekeeper would be
enough to make one swoon.
Fortunately such days are long gone,
and it is now difficult to fool oneself
into believing that education and
breeding determine one’s place in
society. Inequalities still abound, of
course, but the great levelling of so-
ciety has made snobbery, like M.C.
Escher’s famous two-handed sketch,
a self-perpetuating illusion. The fifth
son of an earl is only grander than the
second husband of an IT consultant if
both parties believe him to be so. So-
ciety itself will certainly not be drawn
on the issue.
But we all know that humans are in-
trinsically tribal and hierarchical be-
ings—we continue to divide ourselves
into groups, classes, cliques, fellow-
ships, fraternities, organisations and
clubs at every opportunity that arises.
We all yearn to make snap judgements
of others based on whatever aspect of
their character catches the eye.
As a result, the emphasis has shifted
increasingly towards the more perni-
cious snobbery associated with cul-
ture and the arts: an attempt to make
artistic appreciation an exclusive
rather than an inclusive activity. And
this in my books, much like the Mona
Lisa, is a hanging offence.
In my capacity as a sometime writer
and alltime reader, my reaction to
those who have not yet sailed on the
same literary cruises as myself is to
rush out and buy them first class tick-
ets. What good is it to have touched
a distant vista if you have nobody to
share the moment with?
The same applies to those (fortu-
nately numerous) friends of mine who
are imponderably more familiar than
I am with works of visual and musi-
cal composition. I am always struck by
how those with a genuine excuse for
snobbery – those with talent, training
or technical skill – are most excited at
the thought of welcoming an outsider
into their world. And how it is often
those who are resentful and unsure in
their own abilities who are capable of
the most damning sneers.
So rejoice in your ignorance - not
as a terminal condition, but as the
blank sheet that must once have pre-
ceded the opening bars of Beethoven’s
ninth symphony. And if you catch me
looking down my nose at you, judge
not too harshly – when you’re 6 foot
3 there isn’t much else you can look
down to make eye contact. Except,
perhaps, a telescope.
“I am always struck
by how those with
a genuine excuse
for snobbery are
often the most
welcoming”
Nathan Holford responds on social inequality
I
n the 6th Century, when the
Anglo-Saxons captured the city
of Londinium, a small river, the
Walbrook, ran gently through
the middle of the settlement,
providing water, sanitation and trans-
port for its residents. The invading
force chose to make their home on the
west side of this river, separating them-
selves from the native Celts by forcing
them to inhabit the east.
Today, that river runs secretly from
Finsbury Park, through culverts un-
derground, to freedom through a small
grate, into the Thames by Cannon
Street tube station, yet that arbitrary
divide remains one-and-a-half millen-
nia later. The West End is one of the
cleanest City districts in Europe and,
though every estate agent would has-
ten to point out that it’s ‘up and com-
ing’, the East is still worse off.
Firstly, I’d like to point out that posi-
tive discrimination (or positive action
as it’s been re-dubbed) categorically
does not force employers to hire a less
able over a more able candidate simply
because of their gender, sexual orien-
tation or ethnicity. That just wouldn’t
make any sense. For simplicity, I’m go-
ing to focus on gender. Say a FTSE 100
company have a high-level vacancy to
fill; they find two candidates ideal for
the job, one man and one woman. On
average, these companies employ one
woman for every nine men in such
positions, so positive action gives the
company a legal right to employ the
woman over the man in order to better
represent women within upper ech-
elons of the business. Does it ‘under-
mine pride’ to be given a job because
you’re what the company wants? No. I
didn’t think so.
During its recent investigation of
the financial sector, the Treasury pub-
lished a report entitled ‘Women in the
City’ which went so far as to suggest
that gender inequality in finance may
have contributed to the global financial
crisis. Now, the Equality Commission
predicts that it will take another 40
years before women see fair represen-
tation in the Square Mile, and, interest-
ingly, 200 years before the same hap-
pens in Westminster. And that’s with
current measures of positive action.
Looking at our parliament, about
20% of our MPs are female. 15 MPs
aren’t white when there should be 60 if
people were to be represented propor-
tionally. The way potential parliamen-
tary candidates are selected varies from
“Positive
discrimination
does not force
employers to hire
less competent
candidates”
party to party, but the general case is
that a centrally approved list is handed
on to the local party for them to vote
whoever they want to be represented
by. Now, perhaps I’m biased about this,
but let’s focus on the Conservative
Party for a second—they were, after all,
the most popular at the last election.
Imagine one of their meetings in, say,
Henley-upon-Thames. Old boys and a
few Edwina Currie look-a-likes, bum-
bling about with glasses of port, nib-
bling on cheese from Paxton & Whit-
field, lamenting ‘political correctness
gone mad’ and the quality of driving
tests in Poland. They get handed a list
of people they can choose to represent
them. Who they gonna choose?
In 1996, 4 out of 60 Welsh MPs were
women. By introducing positive dis-
crimination for the 1999 elections,
the Welsh Assembly became the first
legislative body in the world to have
true representation of women. For
the following election, no positive ac-
tion was taken and female representa-
tion remained virtually unchanged at
47%. Similar methods have been used
in Denmark, where 38% of the seats
in parliament are held by women. No
one’s suggesting that positive action
should be a permanent measure, but
instead of waiting for society to crawl
its way to inevitable change, why not
give it a helping hand along the way?
The gender gap has a lot in common
with the Walbrook: the line of separa-
tion, though long vanished, still has
an enduring effect on society. But if
we build homes for everyone, on each
side of the river, we might just see some
long-overdue change.

