7
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
A
s the summer holidays
draw closer, I am think-
ing more and more about
one of my favourite ac-
tivities during the break.
I like to travel, to go places. It can be
a family holiday to the sunny shores
of Rhyl and beyond or simply explor-
ing the woodland paths and country
lanes delightfully close to home. Travel
expands the mind and broadens the
horizon. They say a change is as good
as a rest.
Another thing travel is good for is
the vocabulary, especially in London.
You wouldn’t believe how many four-
lettered curses you could fit into a
single sentence until you hear them
first-hand from a vociferous cabbie on
Exhibition Road. But this highlights an
important point. Travelling in London
is a nightmare at best and lethal at its
worst.
Firstly, there is the Underground.
Don’t get me wrong: my love for the
Tube is as strong as it was on my first
trip to Gloucester Road. But it is not
without its faults. For one thing, it can
be a mite crowded, especially in the
ever-expanding realms of rush-hour.
I like a game of sardines as much as
the next man but the average level of
personal hygiene underground is far
below acceptable. Also, there is the
constant engineering work at week-
ends. Of course it’s necessary but on
those rare occasions when both the
District and Piccadilly lines are down,
I find myself uncomfortably stranded
in West London. And not the good
part of West London either.
Of course I could always take the bus
if the rails proved too much of a hassle.
But these aren’t perfect either. They
suffer from the same terminal prob-
lem of overcrowding as the trains. And
while the provision of service is more
consistent, the speed can be a bit er-
ratic. I have known buses on the same
route take between twenty and eighty
minutes to cover the same distance.
You would be better off planning your
day according to bird entrails.
But it’s not the buses’ fault. They use
the roads but not exclusively; cars, lor-
ries, bikes, taxis all compete for space
on the tarmacadam. This confuses
me in part: why would anyone drive
in London when it’s always so busy
with people driving in London? If you
don’t get run over by a lorry, you’re not
much better off in a taxi. At best, you’ll
be broke by the end of it and, at worst,
raped. Getting to college is important,
true, but there are limits.
Getting around under your own
steam is fine enough but still not per-
fect. Only when walking from A to B
do you get an idea of how big London
really is. Turns out it’s actually bigger
than China. And due to numerous
bike safety laws, all cyclists must wear
a target on their back for all other mo-
torists to aim for. Minor injuries are
worth ten points, with a fatality worth
fifty! And should you make it to your
destination in one piece, and on time,
you are guaranteed to be covered in a
thin, unwholesome patina of sweat.
So what is the solution? I think, after
some careful research at London Zoo,
I may have stumbled upon the perfect
mode of metropolitan transportation.
As befitting the prince among cities, it
is the prince among birds: the ostrich.
For one, it won’t be crowded since
there’ll only be room for you and your
satchel on the back of an ostrich. Like-
wise, travel by ostrich is fast and con-
sistent. With a top speed of 45mph, it
is the fastest of all birds on land—and
when riding it, you’ll be the fastest
thing in London. And when the roads
clog up with traffic, you can simply
take to the pavements. If people can
walk their dogs on the pavements, I
don’t see why you can’t walk (or ride)
your ostrich. Most importantly, this is
just faster than the commuter’s only
natural predator, the leopard.
Furthermore, reliability and security
go hand in hand. For a start, ostriches
can live for up to forty-five years—not
even a well-oiled bike will stand up for
that long. Secondly, ostriches are no-
toriously bad-tempered but this can
work in your favour. Any would-be
thief would quickly get the shit kicked
out of him. However, their mean bite
and kick can make them hard to han-
dle. The only way to properly subdue
an ostrich is to beat it in a wrestling
match. Only then will its pride allow it
to acknowledge you as its master. Af-
ter that, they’re like kittens.
So if in the next few weeks you see a
man-on-ostrich-shaped blur go by on
Queen’s Gate, why not give a wave? I
would stop and say hello, but I haven’t
yet worked out how to brake.
“Due to numerous
bike safety laws, all
cyclists must wear
a target on their
back for motorists
to aim at”
Rhys Davies finds alternate modes of transport
Jenny Wilson on the opportunities to volunteer
I
f you haven’t heard that we have
around 300 Clubs & Societies
at Imperial, you have probably
been spending a bit too much
time in the library—in which
case you might like to join Book Club.
Not to belittle my own job, but when
it comes down to it, Clubs & Societies
are there for us to have fun or be en-
tertained. The point here is that this is
all for us, which is great. However, the
system in which clubs exist is tailored
to that purpose, and it works well—we
know it does because that’s how we are
able to sustain them all. If you haven’t
been a club officer yourself, you may
not know that to survive as a club you
have to have at least twenty members,
and to be eligible for Union grant you
have to charge members at least £2
each.
One thing that clubs aren’t geared
towards is helping people outside
the student population. Sure, there
is the Imperial Volunteer Centre
(www.imperial.ac.uk/volunteering)
and you could just go get involved
with the community in other ways.
Quite frankly, up until now the Un-
ion has been pretty bad at supporting
student-led activities that don’t have
our students as the primary focus.
Only recently has there been a shift
in attitude away from only supporting
students, towards support for us and
the community. While it may seem
controversial to use up the Union’s
resources on voluntary and charitable
work, there have been two strong ar-
guments in favour of this.
The first is that the Union is here
for its students and to serve their
interests. I know from being at the
receiving end of many New Club Ap-
plication forms that there is a genu-
ine interest from our students to look
further afield than the fortress-like
walls of our campus. We are fortunate
in that we have a plentiful supply of
intelligent people who would prob-
ably like a career. It so happens that in
life after university, you will probably
have to interact with sections of the
community that haven’t got a degree
in science, engineering or medicine.
So why not start now?
Following on from that, in an age
of graduate employment doom and
gloom many employers like to see
some interaction with the real world
and doing something that engages
with that world can really help. Most
volunteering projects have an element
of skills development, or provide op-
portunities for you to be put into
an environment that you wouldn’t
necessarily come into contact with
otherwise.
So what has the Union done to ac-
tively change this culture? Please wel-
come: Projects. These are the new
siblings to the Club & Society family.
They have ninety per cent of the same
privileges as clubs, and a few perks
of their own. Standard things to ex-
pect, for instance, are a stall at Fresh-
ers’ Fair, use of the Student Activities
Centre and the ability to book rooms.
It seems a bit backward that to
volunteer in the community or to
do charity fundraising you must pay
membership to be a part of the group,
so Projects don’t have to charge a
membership fee. If you need T-shirts
or name badges for volunteers, there
is a pot of money in the Union put
aside for this purpose. Also, if there
are five of you who want, say, to help
the elderly learn to use computers,
why should you be rejected owing to
paucity of numbers? If only a few of
you can commit to helping out, is it
fair for you not to be recognised by
the Union? Any number of people can
make a positive difference, and give
the Union a better reputation from
the outside.
So where is the line drawn between
Clubs & Societies and Projects? If
your primary intention is helping oth-
ers, either by raising money for char-
ity or helping the local, national or in-
ternational community, then a Project
is what you are working on.
A good example is IC Buddies, set
up at the beginning of this academic
year, which is an outreach Project that
helps local schools with teaching sci-
ence subjects. Projects like this will
be grouped with others in the rein-
vigorated Community Action Group
(CAG). Similarly, those groups rais-
ing money for charity will become
Projects in RAG, meaning that when
the Union tots up how much we
give to charity, we’ll just have to add
up RAG’s profit for the year. All this
comes under the remit of the Deputy
President (Welfare).
In summary, we’re hoping that this
new, more streamlined system will
help students interact with the wider
community in a more co-ordinated
way. Hopefully, you’ll be hearing more
about Projects in the near future.
“Only recently have
students started
offering support
towards the Union
and the wider
community”

