8 felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
POLITICAL COMMENT
L
ast Saturday saw the seizure of the flotilla “Rachel
Corrie” by Israeli Defense Forces. The incident
turned out to be very uneventful and the flotilla,
carrying aid and building materials to Gaza, was
shepherded off to the port of Ashdod, Israel. The
event would probably have gone without much attention
had the events of Monday 31st May not occurred and cast a
somber spotlight upon the three year long Israeli blockade
of Gaza.
Just like the Rachel Corrie, the Mavi Marmara was carry-
ing aid and building materials, and was similarly boarded
by the IDF in international waters. But in stark contrast, the
incident resulted in the killing of nine people and left twenty
people injured. The specific details of the incident are less
clear. The Israeli government insisted, and continues to do
so, that IDF commandos acted in self defense and Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said “This wasn’t a love boat.
This was a hate boat”. The Israeli Government also released
video footage showing commandos encountering resist-
ance by activists with metal bars and chairs after they had
dropped on the deck of the Mavi Marmara.
Yet eye witness accounts report a rather contradictory
story, notably that IDF commandos fired upon the passen-
gers first, with many reporting shots were fired by troops
before they had even landed onboard the ship. Israel is yet
to release the full recording of the footage captured of the
attack. Critically, gunshot wounds to many of the dead show
accurate aiming of shots to the forehead, the back of the
chest and the heart, raising the question of whether Israeli
soldiers acted in self defense.
The response by the International Community was im-
mediate. World leaders expressed their concern to varying
degrees, with President Obama expressing “deep regret”
over the loss of lives and President Sarkozy condemning
the use of “disproportionate force”. However, the message
was clear. Israel was wrong to do what it did. No more
was this evident than in Turkey’s parliament the next day,
where President Ergoden said “Israel in no way can legiti-
mize this murder, it cannot wash its hands of this blood”.
Protest around the world ensued and under Arab anger
at Egypt’s complicity in the blockade, President Mubarak
ordered the Rafah border crossing to finally be opened
indefinitely. The United Nations Security Council finally
called upon Israel to ensure a “prompt, impartial, credible
and transparent” investigation to take place. Israel, however,
refused to allow such investigation, stating only an Israeli
investigation in conjunction with the United States could
possibly be considered. Yet amongst all the international
politics, a serious question must be posed: how did such a
situation, where 1.5 million Palestinian people are prisoners
within their own lands, ever come to pass?
The blockade of Gaza has widely been condemned by the
International Community, and Israel was told by the United
Nations and the International Court of Justice to lift the
blockade. Unfortunately Israel was not listening and it’s not
the first time. It was only in February that President Obama
called for the immediate halt of Israeli settlement construc-
tion in Arab East Jerusalem. However, President Netanyahu
seemed not to listen. The very next day construction work
went on as usual. The controversial Gaza-Israel wall was
widely criticized at the time of its construction and the In-
ternational Court of Justice passed the ruling declaring it
“finds the Israel barrier in Palestinian territory is illegal.”
Again Israel ignored the call and completed the wall anyway.
Yet the most controversial of all Israel’s policy has been the
building of settlements on Occupied Palestinian Territories
since the six-day war in 1967.
According to UN Security Council Resolutions 446 & 465
the settlements have “no legal validity” and “should be dis-
mantled”. International law states that the building of settle-
ments on occupied land is illegal. Despite this, Israel contin-
ues to build settlements at the expense of the livelihoods of
the Palestinian people.
So where does Israel go from here? Humanitarian groups
such as FreeGaza and StopTheWar Coalition have insisted
more flotillas will be sent and Iran has stated that if neces-
sary it will deploy Revolutionary Guard naval ships to escort
the next convoy of 60 aid ships heading for Gaza, further
raising political tensions in the region.
The very blockade itself, the source of so much pain,
is now being viewed in a somewhat new light by western
nations, with US Secretary of State Hilary Clinton declar-
ing the siege as “unsustainable” and the foreign shadow
secretary David Miliband saying the blockade is “a stain
on policy right across the Middle East”. And as Israel re-
lations with Turkey, the only Muslim country in NATO,
reach breaking point, the near isolation that Israel now
finds itself in on a global stage is also a very dangerous and
worrying one. In a recent interview Norman Finklestein,
an American author widely regarded as one of the best ex-
perts on the Israeli – Palestinian conflict, said that “Israel
is now a lunatic state. It’s a lunatic state with between two
and three hundred nuclear devices. It is threatening war
daily.”
Israel has for too long been allowed to dictate policy in
the region unchecked and without consequence. This was
made apparent not only by the excessive and the totally
unnecessary use of force on the Mavi Mamara, but also
in 2008’s appalling and horrendous attack on Gaza, code
named “Cast Lead”, where disproportionate force lead to
the death of 1,400 Palestinians.
Surely then, it is time for Israel to finally accept reality,
that whether by international help or the pure determina-
tion and spirit of the Palestinian people, the state of Pal-
estine and the Palestinian people are going nowhere, and
they want their freedom. In the same token, it is time the
likes of America, Britain, Europe and even more impor-
tantly, the Arab nations manned up and took a decisive
role in ending this 60 year conflict, for the sake of both Pal-
estinians and Israelis, before more innocent lives are lost.
Has Israel Gone Too Far?
With pressure mounting on Israel, will world leaders finally put
an end to Israel’s continuing expansion at the expense of the
Palestinian people? By Aslam Shamsuddin
“Israel continues to
build settlements at the
expense of the livelihoods
of the Palestinian
people.”
“Israel in no way can
legitimize this murder, it
cannot wash its hands of
this blood”
The MV Rachel Corrie, an aid
ship which was also part of the
intercepted Freedom Flotilla
is named after a 23-year old
American activist killed in Gaza
in 2003

