9
felix FRIDAY 11 JUNE 2010
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk POLITICAL COMMENT
O
nce again, Israel finds itself in the middle of
international outrage with the fallout from
the Mavi Marmara confrontation. Nations
around the world unsheathed their Israel-
bashing baton once again. True, the shoot-
ing of the 9 activists was appalling, brutal and an excessive
show of force. But is Israel all to blame for the way the events
unfolded?
Free Gaza Movement is the umbrella group behind the
Freedom Flotilla, of which the Mavi Marmara was one
part. The group sends aid ships to Gaza as a form of pro-
test against the Gaza blockade. Three of their previous aid
ships have successfully reached Gaza so far. Their mission
manifesto cites nonviolent action in their effort to break the
Gaza blockade.
However the footage of the vicious mob wielding metal
rods and chairs, hammering the Israeli commandos in a
manner reminiscent of a seal cull and throwing one of them
overboard is unsettling, especially aboard a supposedly
peaceful ship, as assumed by the Israeli patrols.
The Mavi Marmara is owned by IHH, an Islamic char-
ity accused of funding terrorist activities. Israel claims that
the aggressors aboard the ship had intentions other than a
peaceful civil disobedience. Some of them were suspected
mercenaries, based on the large amount of cash found on
them. Israel even goes to the extent of accusing the hand of
al-Qaeda in the incident. Turkey shot the claim down, stat-
ing that no such presence could bypass the security checks
at the Turkish docks. They also said that they could not
have secretly boarded the ship, as the Mavi Marmara only
stopped at Cyprus for the boarding of two German MPs and
European activists.
Accounts from both sides on who initiated the aggression
are starkly different. The perpetrators of the confrontation
is still unknown. Activists claimed that Israeli forces sprayed
bullets on unarmed passengers. The IDF claimed that the
commandos shot in self-defence. The video circulating on-
line leans towards Israel’s version of the story (note that it
was released by the IDF). The five other vessels in the flotilla
that followed Mavi Marmara were intercepted peacefully.
Free Gaza Movement could have done more to ensure that
the Freedom Flotilla was an act of defiance in accordance
with their nonviolence pledge. Why a group of men previ-
ously braced for violence on-board a supposedly peaceful
vessel raises questions. Was Free Gaza Movement sincerely
ignorant of their presence? Or more troubling, did they
know but tolerate it because it helped them towards their
ultimate goal of breaking the blockade.
The aim of the Freedom Flotilla was clear. “We’re trying to
break the blockade of the Gaza Strip and tell the world that
Israel has no right to starve 1.5 million Palestinians,” said
Greta Berlin, head of the Free Gaza Movement, before the
Freedom Flotilla departed.
The Mavi Marmara was offered the chance to unload its
aid materials at Ashdod, but refused to do so. It was evident
where its priority lies when it comes to delivering aid to the
Gazans or delivering a political message.
The deaths of nine of the activists at the hands of the Is-
raeli commandos certainly threw the Gaza blockade once
again in the international stage and reinforced the pressure
on Israel to lift the siege.
However, would increasing worldwide pressure cause Is-
rael to buckle and lift the blockade? Perhaps demonizing Is-
rael would cause it to withdraw more into itself and become
more uncooperative as it perceives the outside world to be
unsympathetic to its own security needs (one of the aims of
the blockade was to stem flow of arms into Hamas)?
On the other hand, Israel’s impetuous use of force makes
it easy for its opponents to turn the sympathy of the world’s
watchers against it. Israel’s enemies knew that the Achilles
heel of the middle-eastern powerhouse is its shaky inter-
national relations and that is where they strike. Israel has
a reputation of being hawkish and, to some countries, the
perception is that Israel thinks itself above international law.
The Netanyahu administration’s defiance of US requests
to halt the settlement expansion in East Jerusalam before
the Israeli-Palestinian proximity talks casts doubt on Israel’s
commitment to the peace progress. Israel’s attempt to sway
China into voting for a sanction against Iran by showing
China the impact of a pre-emptive Israeli strike on Iran –
should the UN fail to halt Iran’s nuclear activities – on the
oil supply of China, reinforces Israel’s maverick reputation.
Israel constantly resorts to the self-defence argument to
justify its use of force. The bombardment of Gaza in January
2009 brought Hamas’ trigger happy rocket firing into south-
ern Israel to a halt, though at the cost of many Palestinians
lives and souring of international relations. Often, Israel is
caught in a Catch-22 situation.
The flotilla tragedy also brings to light the efficiency of
bold and radical activism. The Mavi Marmara may have
highlighted the Gaza blockade, but in doing so, has dis-
rupted a lot of possibility for peace. Preference for Hamas
was reportedly faltering in Gaza, but the incident could rally
support for Hamas. Israel stands to lose its only Muslim
ally, Turkey, and with it a lot of clout to halt Iran’s nuclear
ambition.
On the other hand, it forced Israel to accept Britain’s sug-
gestion to water down the blockade, in exchange for being
allowed to run its own inquiry into the incident instead of
the international inquisition demanded by the UN. Peace
activists hope that help from the US in dampening the con-
demnation by the international community would come at
a price – Israel’s cooperation in future peace efforts – as
the Obama administration is more reluctant to defend Is-
rael unconditionally.
The Freedom Flotilla champions a righteous cause. But its
organizers need to ensure that malicious forces do not devi-
ate the ships from their objectives: a non-violent display of
civil disobedience to break the Gaza blockade.
A week after the flotilla fiasco, Israel killed 4 Palestinian
divers suspected of being militants. The Iranian Red Cross
would be sending two aid ships to Gaza, in light of the flo-
tilla incident. The world waits for Israel’s reaction.
Relaxing its hawkish inclination would help Israel make
more friends, and so reinforce its security. In a hawk-dove
game, playing hawk does not always garner the best payoffs.
A bungled affair
Were the intentions of the Free Gaza Movement completely
innocent, and are their efforts really helping those suffering in
Palestine? By Guo Heng Chin
“Perhaps demonizing
Israel would cause it
to withdraw more into
itself and become more
uncooperative”
“Israel claims that the
aggressors aboard the ship
had intentions other than a
peaceful civil disobedience.”

