Imperial College Union and St Mary's Student Union to merge at last
A merger is announced
St Mary's Hospital Medical School
Students Union (SMHMSSU) may finally
become a constituent college union (CCU)
of Imperial College Union (ICU), almost
two years after the College and the
Medical School officially merged. The
provisional merger document, still under
discussion, formalises the relationship
which has formed between the Unions
over the last year.
Relations between the two Unions had
been strained after Nigel Baker, ICU
President for 88/89 and Phil Drew, his
counterpart at St Mary's, clashed over the
position of the St Mary's Union. Their
successors Neil McCluskey and Rhydian
Hapgood have had a better working
relationship and have now agreed on a
formal merger. The merger document has
yet to be signed but it is believed that few
changes will be made.
Mr McCluskey told FELIX that the
document was 'a wonderful opportunity'
to initiate discussions and he commended
Mr Hapgood and his fellow contributors
for their hard work. M r Hapgood, who
helped draft the proposal, told FELLX that
he thought it was 'very fair' and reflected
how things were run this year. Although
he expects a few 'teething troubles', he
feels that medical students have a role to
play within IC.
As a C C U , the St Mary's Union will
still remain largely independent of ICU
and will have its own separate source of
funding. Some of this money will be
donated to ICU for administration and the
use of its facilities.
At present, the St Mary's Union has its
own facilities at the Medical School, at
Teddington Sports Ground and at the
recreation centre at the rear of its student
hall of residence, Wilson House. In future,
St Mary's students will be given priority
at these sites although they will not have
exclusive access. Medical students will
also be given first choice for
accommodation at Wilson House itself.
Administratively, the two Unions will
also remain largely separate with decisions
affecting the St Mary's Paddington
Campus taken at separate St Mary's
Ordinary General Meetings (OGMs).
Decisions affecting the whole of IC will
still be taken at ICU Union General
Meetings (UGMs) at which St Mary's
students will be entitled to vote. The St
Mary's Union President will join the ICU
president, deputy president and honorary
secretary and the presidents of the three
existing CCUs on the ICU Executive. St
Mary's Union will also be given a number
of places on Council, ICUs main decision
making body. The medical schools'
existing representatives on the Wardens
Sub Committee and the Board of Studies
should remain in their posts.
Relishing the moment

