Appealing?
Dear Mr Smedley,
Thank you for the coverage of UCL affairs in recent
issues of FELIX. It would be better however if you
used more competent foreign affairs correspondents
in Bloomsbury and thus avoided a degree of
inaccuracy and misinformation which resulted in
articles falling well short of your customary journalistic
quality.
The facts about building developments on the UCL
site are as follows:
1. There is no planned sale of land to anybody.
2. UCL has been very successful in persuading the
Medical Research Council and the Eisai Company to
consider providing two new buildings for research in
molecular and cell biology.
3. The sites of these buildings are currently occupied
by an assembly of old buildings and used for various
purposes, including some UCL Union activities.
4.1 have initiated a detailed study of how best to re-
provide-and hopefully in some cases to improve
on—those facilities which will be lost.
5. We are also preparing plans for a new Union
building.
On the latter point, we shall need to raise several
million pounds. In the light of the interest of FELIX—
shared by your readers I trust-in the welfare of UCL
students, I hope I can rely on your help when we start
the fund-raising campaign.
Yours sincerely,
DrDH Roberts, Provost, University College London.
UCLU talks
Dear Sir,
Thank you for your interest and support during the
recent discussion of UCL Union facilities to be lost as
a result of new investment in UCL.
In reply to your article in Issue 868 (Friday May 11),
we feel an update is in order. Two of the UCL
sabbatical officers met with Dr Roberts the Provost,
on Wednesday May 16 to discuss proposals to
remove the Gym, Garage and Theatre Workshop. As
a result of this meeting, during which the Union was
able to put forward some positive proposals for the
replacement of these vital facilities, the student body
at UCL is much happier.
The Provost has expressed commitment to the
replacement and amelioration of Union facilities in
general. However, this is dependent upon the
completion of contracts with the company, Eisai,
which will be encouraged to support student activities
by providing funding and space for the Union in the
new building. Short-term accommodation of societies
which use the threatened space at the moment will
be paid for by the college and a new Union building,
the object of a thirty-yearlong campaign, could be
forthcoming if other negotiations go according to plan.
Thus it appears that some of the fears of the
students have been allayed. However, the Medical
Research Council contract, due to be signed in the
next week or so is the one which will crush our space
and no money is forthcoming until the clinching of the
deal with Eisai, due to take place in June. Pressure
must be kept up to make sure students do not lose
out even though the present outlook is reasonably
good.
We will keep you informed of new developments.
Yours faithfully,
Helen Newens,
External Affairs and Welfare Officer, UCL Union.
Nightline fresh
for ULU
Dear Dave,
I was glad to read in 'President's Report' that Neil
McCluskey now agrees with me, that ULU is the right
solution for a permanent home for Nightline. The
approach to ULU is of course a matter for the
President-ULU is run by the student body and not
by Senate.
When I discussed the matter with Neil, I offered to
seek support from the other Colleges. I was able to
raise the matter with the Principals of King's College,
RHBNC, LSE and the Provost of UCL. They were all
agreed that ULU, by virtue of its central role, was
clearly the most appropriate location for Nightline;
they will support this solution to the problem.
Nightline serves an important role in the University.
This College, in conjunction with the others, will
continue to provide the financial support required to
enable it to fulfil its function.
Yours sincerely,
Eric Ash.
Sue you too
(Jimmy)
Dear Dave,
I write to thank you for your praise of me in last
week's editorial. It is entirely undeserved as you would
find out if you bothered to use your 'journalistic'
capabilities. What is also entirely undeserved, unjust
and downright ludicrous are your criticisms of Miss
Fiona Nicholas, Union Honorary Secretary (Events).
Either you have a very short memory or your
sources have no brains. During the Autumn Term
Fiona was around every single weekend administering
events and organising security for nearly all of those
weekends. The Spring Term was almost the same.
Unfortunately Fiona with all her work had caused
herself to be physically ill. Even this though only
prevented her from being around for a few weekends.
The Summer Term is traditionally quieter for the
Hon Sec. Fiona justly deserves shorter hours. Yet even
now, if you'd bothered to find out, Fiona is working
hard on room bookings for the Summer, drafting
amendments to job descriptions, tightening up the
legalities of operating events and generally preparing
the way ahead for next year's Hon Sec. Organisation
and toward planning are top of the list with Fiona,
certainly more so than other sabbaticals (myself
definitely included), so maybe this allows her to
organise a day, in a day. Fiona was the first person
to offer me help when I started floundering!
Your criticisms of Fiona are maybe centred around
Fiona's lack of reports to UGMs, FELIX and Council.
Perhaps Fiona has decided to save the rain forests
since no one seems to take a blind bit of notice of
what she does do. This has certainly been the case
in the past as no one yet has asked Fiona to give a
full and formal report to any meeting. Where does the
FELIX Editor answer for their follies, do they expect
open criticism in FELIX? Hardly conducive to good
relations.
If I were Fiona I would seek legal advice to see if
there were grounds for sueing. I'd hate to think what
kind of misjudgements prospective employers could
make on reading such tripe. Perhaps it may be better
to simply make it an internal matter just to see who
the FELIX Editor/Print Unit Manager really is
answerable to.
' Yours sincerely,
Neil McCluskey, ICU President 89/90.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUCEMENTS
• Feel like a revision break? Come and play
football, rounders with the West London
Chaplaincy. Tuesdays 7.30pm meet at Bandstand
in Kensington Garden.
• Library book sale-Lyon Playfair Library.
9.30am onwards, Wednesday June 6. Lots of
bargains. After 1pm any five for £1.
ACCOMMODATION
• Fulham flatshare-long or short let available
now. Single room in large Fulham flat with 3 IC
PGs. Non-smoker. Rent £47 pw. Call Anna 071
731 1375 ansaphone or 071 955 7087 day.
• Urgent 2 people wanted for flat share in
Hammersmith. Contact Guy or Boaz on 081-563
0232, flat 127 (evenings).
• Two single rooms available, 25 mins from
College. Rent £53.50 per week from Oct 1 1990.
Contact Simon Torry ext 4530.
VACANCIES
• Project Managers. California based
Geotechnical and Environmental Engineering Firm
has immediate openings for environmental project
managers and civil/geotechnical engineers.
Positions require BSc, and min of 1 or more years
experience in soil/groundwater contamination,
landfills, field investigations, report preparation,
and construction observation. Must have excellent
written and communication skills. CV with cover
letter and salary history to Dr Nick Homayounfar,
Wahler Associates, PO Box 10023, Palo Alto, CA
94303: 010-1 (415) 968-6250. If interested
phone the above number for further information.
PERSONAL
• Taj & Matt, Physics 2. Hope you get will soon
from all in Physics.
1990 LIFE SCIENCES BALL
at
THE LONDON
ZOO
JUNE 30th 1990
280 TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE
PRICE £25 PER PERSON
Cost includes
kbuffet dinner-k
-kPimms/Buck's Pin Reception-k
kBand & Disco-k
Send cheques made payable to 'The Dept Biology'
by Friday June 22nd at the very latest to Helen
Roberts or Neil Bolton, Beit West Wing, 2.3 or G. 14
The Management reserve the right to vet all applications,
and are open to bribery. The cost is estimated, and
refunds may be made at a later date, depending on
departmental subsidies.
Page 11

