Guards, guards
A security guard should soon be posted to a new
security lodge at the Selkirk entrance to the Southside
Halls, fifteen months after it was first agreed.
Southside warden, John Hassard, told FELIX that
non- residents 'can and do enter' southside and that
there is 'strong evidence' that outsiders were
responsible for a spate of thefts and vandalism over
the last two weeks. He feels that the security guard
would put a stop to much of this and believes that
the college authorities have 'fully accepted' the need
and will now take action as soon as possible.
For many years, college chief security officer Geoff
Reeves, has posted two men to Southside even though
officially only one was available. According to Dr
Hassard, the position changed a few weeks ago and
there will now officially be two security guards. One
of these guards will work in the new lodge.
Mr Reeves told FELIX that several thousand
pounds still need to be spent on the lodge to make
it usable. This money would have to come from the
residence account and, although Dr Hassard admits
that money is scarce, the amount is 'irrelevant' when
compared to 'the safety of Southside residents.' and
works out at less than 'six day's rent income' from
the Hall.
Theft
£1300 worth of cash and cheques disappeared from
the Union Bar over the weekend. Imperial College
Union Deputy President Dave Williams confirmed
that the money had vanished but told FELIX that 'the
matter had been resolved satisfactorily'. He would
not elaborate.
College Security Officer, Terry Briley, told FELIX
that the money has not been recovered and that the
police have been informed. An internal enquiry is also
underway.
Scrooge
atlC
Students in College halls will be required to pay for
one week's residence during the Christmas vacation
next year.
The ruling, which applies to all students in 31 week
lets, will enable them to stay in the residence for an
extra seven days and use the rooms to store
possessions. Any additional time in hall will still have
to be paid for.
Scrapped
A rusting Volkswagen Beetle belonging to Imperial
College Air Cooled Beetle Society will be scrapped
unless the society starts repairs immediately. The
beetle, which has been parked near Linstead Hall for
the last two years, has had no work done on it and
Mr Patrello, the Imperial College Traffic Warden,
feels that it is wasting valuable parking space.
Mr Patrello also requested people who park their
cars in the roads behind the Royal College of Science
Union Office to stop. These roads belong to the
Science Museum and the cars are also in imminent
danger of a one way trip to the breaker's yard.
Awards
The City and Guilds Union (C&GU) awarded its
Colours and Union General Awards (UGAs), this
week. This year's UGAs go to C & G U President Chris
Home, Vice President Kevin McCann, Hon. Sec.
Rachel Smith, Academic Affairs Officer Chris
Greenwood, Entertainments Officer and next years
C & G U President Cathy McClay, and Prof. Pat
Holmes, the Dean of the City and Guilds College.
Going
down
Applications to some college departments for next
year are down. Physics and Electrical Engineering
have slightly fewer applicants than last year but neither
expect problems filling places. Applications to
Mechanical Engineering are down by 5 % despite a
national increase of 1%. Admissions tutor, D.A.Robb
blames the decrease on the 'London' factor: London
is expensive and tends to intimidate prospective
students. Mineral Resources Engineering are also
doing no worse than last year according to Dr. Mike
Smith, despite a a significant drop in admissions
nationwide.
Long term prospects do not look good, as the
number of 18-year-olds is going down. Dr.
T.C.Bacon of Physics admits to being 'worried'.
Smash!
A plate glass window was kicked in during trouble
at Southside bar last Saturday. Rob Northey, College
Catering Manager, told FELTX that the college knows
who was responsible for the damage and that the
'gentleman concerned' has been presented with the
£322 repair bill.
College Security Officer Terry Briley told FELIX
that security will be 'taking a strong line' with
offenders during the post-exam period.
Flash!
Flashers have been reported on the roof of the Beit
building. They are believed to have been revealing
all to the inhabitants of the all-female Queen
Alexandra Hall opposite. Chief Security Officer,
Geoff Reeves, told FELIX that the offenders have
not been caught and it is not known whether they are
students or rather idiosyncratic visitors to the college.
The flashers now appear to have stopped.
Help?
In a last desperate bid to fill up a spare piece of the
back page and therefore to further spare the acting
news editor's hairline, his Smedleyness has kindly
agreed to print the credits. He would, thus, like to
thank: Adam Tinworth, Jason Lander, Ian Hodge,
Jeremy Burnell, Richard Murray, The Amazing
Flying Gerbil Machine, Adrian Pagan, Mark Wilde,
Liz Warren, Benjamin Turner, Mylan Lester, Rose
Atkins and Andy Thompson. Good luck to the
following in their exams: Adam Harrington, Chris
Stapleton, Toby Jones, DEL, Sarah, Simon Haslam,
Ben Turner, Roland Flowerdew, Paul Shanley and
Fruit.

