Deputy President David Williams
This report will not be a catalogue of my successes and failures as I see
them, that is for you to judge. It will be a record of the developments in
the areas of responsibilities in which I hold court.
Trading
The DP's responsibility for trading comes through his chairmanship of the
relevant management committee and thus the associated responsibility to
Council. It is this area of the job that I have found to involve the highest
degree of teamwork. It has been the most thankless and the most rewarding.
Bookstore
The old mascot and emblem of Imperial College Union was the Phoenix,
it is that analogy which best describes the changes which have taken place
this year within the bookstore. One year ago the College-managed bookshop
was on the verge of insolvency; ineffective management control, poor
product selection and non-existent stock control meant that radical change
was needed. The Union which had now gained complete control of the
bookshop management, took the risk-laden step of investing over £36,000
in the bookstore refit and electronic point of sale control system, Indeed
during the course of the year further loans to ease cashflow have been given
and repaid.
The conversion work took place over August 1989 and progressed well,
bar a few constructional delays thanks to College estates. The new look
'Bookstore' opened in mid-September with a new manager and a new look
which seemed to meet the overall approval. A number of operational
problems arose early on In the term, these were unfortunate for all involved
and in many respects were to be expected given the mode of the operation
in place. I am assured that these have been sorted out now and everything
will be fine for next October,
During the autumn term vigorous battles took place as College tried to
fix a rent on the bookstore premises that looked like killing off a return of
the Union's investment. Just as a deal was about to be stuck, it was noticed
in the Union Bye-laws (a document somewhat akin to the Tablets of Stone)
that the Bookstore site is for the use of the Union rent free. A wee glass
of sherry was had by all.
In February the 88/89 accounts were ready, they showed that the
bookshop had made a £69,845 trading deficit, a large proportion of which
was a massive stock write-off (we all remember the History of Persian
Earthquakes!).
At the May meeting of the bookstore committee the half year accounts
up to January 31st were presented. These showed an operating surplus
of nearly £35,000, although sales were down, an improvement of nearly
4,000%. It certainly looks as though the Union IT investment is paying off.
Current figures show that trade is now up on last year despite five weeks
during which we were not open. However, due to large accumulated losses
and continued cash flow problems, it will be around two years before the
Union will see a significant return on its investment.
Although the manager had to leave us at Easter (due to family reasons)
the store (now under the temporary guidance of the Union Manager) has
continued plans for development and expansion, including a mail order
enterprise and a theatre ticket agency.
The start of the year saw the presentation of the 88/89 accounts: these
showed a significant improvement over any other year. It was on this note
that we pressed forward, sound in the knowledge that the formula was
right. It soon became clear that the financial pressures of students were
finally beginning to hit their beer money: trade in Freshers' Week being 2%
down (excluding effects from inflation). This is a trend which has continued
throughout the year, there being only a 1 % growth in cash sales. An increase
in function trade has meant that credit sales have pushed the total sales
figures up by 3%. This sales stagnation has not effected nett profits which
have increased by 24%. Please note these figures are based on the year
to Feb 28th.
The bar has had its share of troubles this year, a fight in late October
led to a prolonged and complicated disciplinary case, which showed the
College to be totally spineless on such matters. On this point, the Union
has decided to refer all future violent incidents straight to the police, it is
a move being reciprocated in all College bars.
The hunt for an assistant bar manager resulted in a placement being made
in January. Our relief soon turned to despare as the appointee disappeared
at the same time as the weekends takings. We are unlikely to see any of
this money again. The appointee has since been charged and is due to appear
in court soon. After another recruitment drive in February, a replacement
was found but didn't show up. On our third attempt we have found someone
who seems to be settling in nicely.
A prolonged debate this year with Britvic Corona resulted in the Pepsi
machine finally being replaced, the Union was eventually charged the correct
price for soft drinks and given a full back-credit for the seven months of
over charging.
Snack Bar
This year has been one of change and hopefully development of the Snack
Bar. The start of the year saw the 88/89 accounts showing a E20.5K deficit
and a realisation that this was the make or break year for the catering
operation within the Union Building.
Initially, the year was spent trying to refine the product that we already
had. Specialising on product control and making sure that the service was
good were prime objectives. The first part of the year was helped by the
encouragingly healthy function trade. However as the spring term dawned
it became increasingly clear the formula that we had established was not
working, it was at this stage that the relaunch concept was conceived.
The idea of converting the snack bar into a sandwich bar came firstly from
the catering manager. It was an approach that the committee embraced
wholeheartedly. The marketing and publicity campaign was a success, a
loss of £3,167 in January was reduced to £846 in February, a significant
improvement.
It was apparent in February that there were a number of operational
problems to be overcome. A task force was set up to tackle these. The
Union Manager, dealing with those behind the counter, and a group of
budding sabbaticals handling those in front of the counter. As things
improved behind, there were two days of action in front.
As I write now, there are no trading accounts available up to May, however
sales seem to be holding steady against the same period last year. A number
of new initiatives are due to be introduced in the next few weeks, including
a delivery service, ice creams, selling snack bar food in the bar and using
the Bookstore as a supplementary outlet for snack bar rolls.
Over the summer, a working group will be convened to plan a strategy
for the marketing of the Snack Bar and other Union facilities. Hopefully their
plans will not be scuppered through the ineffectiveness and inactivity of
the Internal Services Officer and the blockheadedness, misguided loyalty
and personal grudge held against me this year by the FELIX Editor. My last
statements are probably going to attract (unsavoury) comments from the
Editor of this Organ. I do not want to detract from my own possible failings
but I stand by what I have said.
An area of catering operation that can be developed is the function trade.
This requires a sizeable investment in both catering hardware in the Union
Dining Hall kitchen, and in the quality of the UDH furniture. Work on this
is currently underway.
In conclusion, I believe the Snack Bar has reached its lowest ebb and
the tide is now changing. Next year's sabbaticals have the right formula
from which to work from. Given good, planned marketing and refining of
the operation there is no reason that the Snack Bar cannot be turned into
an outlet with a stable performance figure. Whether this is negative (subject
to cross subsidisation), zero or positive is still to be decided.
Finance
The Union clubs and societies have seen a significant improvement this
year, thanks mainly to the new book keeping strategy and the Financial
Procedure Document drawn up by last year's DP and the Union Finance
Officer. A number of irregularities cropped up during the year, mainly
concerning external bank accounts, these were satisfactorily resolved.
Unfortunately, there are a number of clubs which feel they have a God
given right to operate, regardless of any budgetry contraints. This was
brought to a head this year over the matter of the last issue of the 88/89
FELIX, Clubs must realise that if they overspend the consequence of this
must be bourne by the following year's officers—the Union will not bail
people out. It is a lesson that the CCU's have learned to their cost and it
is one that IC Union clubs must learn also.
The Union Finance Committee has been a joy to work with this year,
Reasoned debate and understanding for common problems have been the
order of the day. If next year, UFC can operate on such a level keel then
the Union's money will be in safe hands.
The level of funding that the Union will receive next year still hangs in
the balance. The College is pressing us to reduce our reserves. Although
we accept that these are large, we have our own plan to bring about a
reduction (plans such as the UDH refit, writing off the sizable snack bar
deficit, and the Union Office computer upgrade). The loans made to the
snack bar and the bookstore, to ease cashflow, underpin the need for a
Union reserve of several tens of thousands of pounds. It all boils down to
the right of the Union to assess its own financial requirements. It is quite
laughable that, given the student management of our money, our liquid
reserve is larger than that of the College!
Mascotry
This has been fairly quiet, RCS and Guilds have, as expected been the most
active, both giving each other a run for their money. It was good to see
Theta, the RCS mascot, out more often than last year. The spirit on both
sides has been as good humoured as it should. Guilds handed back the King's
College mascot, Reggie, to the Dean as the students were not interested.
This was a real shame as Reggie is one of London's oldest mascots going
back to the early 1940s. Sadly there was even less interest from Royal
Holloway and Bedford. RCS eventually handed back Davy to the RSM, with
RSM showing a surprisingly unsportsmanly disinterest in the proceedings.
Nevertheless full marks go to all those who did raise the £500 to get Davy
back,
Mike has made it to most UGMs this year, an added complication has
been the evening UGMs which makes returning Mike back home a little
difficult. Early in the spring Mike went for a trip around London with Davy
and Theta, a number of interesting photographs were taken. The offer of
a repeat performance still stands with C&G and RSM mascotry.
The highlight of the year must be the recovery of one of London's oldest
mascots, Mary, from Queen Mary College, It was discovered in an antique
shop in Portabello Road by Jim Sarsfield (a member of '22 Club and ex-
RCS officer). The handover was negotiated by another old-boy, Simon
Banton. In exchange RCS recovered a number of minor mascots stolen by
QMC a few years ago. At least the spirit of mascotry still exists with some
people.
Academic Affairs
This field of work was one in which I was totally inexperienced, and I saw
it as one where most people had something to win or lose. In the past,
Academic Affairs Officers such as Chas Brereton and Richard Spencer have
pushed forward the bounds of Acc Aff at IC, The College Committees that
1 have attended with relation to Acc Aff have often proved to be the most
interesting. They have shown me that IC does care, the thinking behind
the courses is there. Certainly the Undergraduate Studies Committee is the
most stimulating committee I have experienced this year. Its only problem
has been the 'politic' way it has presented its finding to the Board of Studies,
a committee so large very few members have the nerve to speak out against
the Rector.
The Undergraduate Studies Committee (USC) is a stark contrast to the
IC Acc Aff Comm. The apathetic attendance and lack of foresight from its
members proved to be the only dazzling aspect for its existence. The work
of the CCU AAO's and a couple of dep reps (but notably not the IC AAO)
are the only elements which raised it from the absolute mists of obscurity.
This year saw the presentation of the USC report on the Life Science
Division and the Chem Eng departments, which were surveyed last year.
The LSD report was quite damning (if one was prepared to read between
the lines). I am glad to report that the Biochem department is changing its
Undergrad course to accommodate the recommendations I am still
unconvinced by the action to be taken by Biology.
The problem of illegal timetabling was a considerable one at the start
of term. Most departments were most responsive when questioned on the
matter. However, when challenging tutors, the unsubstantiated claims in
FELIX did significant damage to the credibility of our case.
The significant steps forward this year taken by the College have been
the increased commitment to lecturer training and assessment and also the
expansion of the Course X with a year in Continental Europe.
The steps backward have been the loss of student intellectual copyright
on inventions made at College, and the progression stop (which prevents
a student moving forward to his next year of study if he owes a payment
on a hall bill).
One of the most informative projects that I undertook this year was the
conference which I attended in Paris. All this year the Union has funded
visitors to European student meetings. BEST, or the Board of European
Students in Technology, was set up to further the development of the
'Erasmus and Comet' foreign study and work experience programmes. IC
is involved in both of these schemes, it is considering dropping this support
due to lack of interest from IC students. If you do fancy studying or working
abroad for a few months do contact your senior tutor. It is fantastic
opportunity. If IC pulls out then the chance for the other Europeans to visit
here will be lost.
Postgraduates
Early on in the session, attempts were made to stimulate interest in a
postgraduate group. Nothing was forthcoming until the Spring Term when
we saw the emergence of the Women's Posgraduate Group (since made
an official subcommittee of the PG Group).
The work of the College PG Studies Committee has been mostly
concerned with the rubber stamping of course name changes. However,
it has done a great deal of work assessing the role of the research supervisor.
It has become evident that the level of supervisory control varies greatly,
and that the minimum standard is unacceptably low. This is of special
interest to overseas students who are generally not used to British levels
of Postgraduate study. I am happy that the work being done in this field
has the correct objectives and I hope the committee will not compromise
its principles and that the rest of College, particularly the departments, have
the convictions to carry them through.
House
Building
Although not directly within my job description. House has accounted for
over 40% of my time this year and has always been the most frustrating.
This year has seen a number of major projects come to fruition-replacement
of the Gym floor, removal of the dumb waiter, building of the top floor toilets.
Before the end of the year I hope that the Concert Hall will be refurbished
and structually improved and the top floor redecorated. The old kitchen
above the FELIX Office is also due to be refurbished and turned into a
Rag/ICCAG office, this is to accommodate the American College which is
taking office space and classrooms on the top floor.
Regular maintenance of the building has been a problem all year, this is
largely due to the well intentioned, though inefficient, operation of the
residence maintenance section, I understand that they are over-stretched
for their resources, but if this is the case then why can't the load of the
Union Building be shifted onto central estates? For a period of the second
term they seemed to manage faults quite effectively, swiftly and without
trouble.
Security
Theft of personal property proved to be a considerable problem in the first
term. From talking to College security I have learned that there are specific
gangs who tour colleges in the freshers' period because they are such soft
targets. Better use of duty officers and improved security of areas such
as the gym changing rooms all help to combat crime, but the best prevention
of all is individual vigilance.
College Committees
Governing Body and Finance and Executive Committees
These have proved to be useful committees for getting to know people,
though most of the business has already been 'decided' before the meeting.
Nevertheless, the Union has been able to establish a number of compromises
when it has come to the crunch.
House Committee
In a change to its terms and conditions the Union now has to report on
its bar and catering operations to this committee.
Conference and Catering Service Management Committee
A few years ago it was decided that the MDH would be refurbished. If
College did this many people would come here for conferences with the
result that their hire fees and food bills would pay for the cost of the redec.
Instead, all of the students that eat in QT and drink in Southside have paid
for it.
Comments and reflections
Otherwise known as the depraved rantings of a cynical old fool.,.
Dave Williams.
P.S. Thanks for the help and support of everyone I have had the pleasure
(that certainly narrows it down!) of knowing and working with this year.
For the moral guidance of Justine and immoral misguidance of the '22 Club.

