President Neil McCluskey
1.Introduction
You'll be pleased to know that I've no intention of killing half the Amazonian
Rain Forest by writing a lengthy annual report. If any of you wish to know
any more about what I've been up to then purchase a bound copy of FELIX,
fead UGM papers or read Council papers. I believe an annual report should
contain recommendations useful for the future welfare of students so here
goes...
2.Accommodation
2.1 .Committee structure
This is definitely the area where I've become most exasperated with the
college hierarchy and pathetic committee system. Three committees namely,
Residence's Security Working Party, Wardens Sub-Committee and Student
Residence Committee (SRC) sit and discuss exactly the same subject matters
with no power at any level to do anything that involves spending money!!
The policies that SRC does make either get flaunted or the persons
responsible for enacting policy are too incompetent to carry them out.
Recommendations
i) The committee structure is re-worked to give the committees actual
responsibilities and powers, They should be allowed a budget and then be
able to prioritise the areas where that budget is spent.
iilFeed-back from students on their reaction to the residences should come
from college Welfare committee and from the use of surveys.
2.2 Rents
Myself and others have fought a hard battle to keep the rents as low as
possible achieving only an average 2.8% increase for 90/91. The Rector
has realised that students would not want to come to London if the reality
is portrayed as accurately as it should be. The halls are inadequately
maintained which is resulting in two things; i)lf rents rise to high students
are not getting value for money and may as well move elsewhere. ii)The
halls attract much needed external income from conference bookings. It
is unfair to expect the students to bail out the college's lack of foresight so...
Recommendations:
i) The college takes the money its is building up in its appeal not to buy
a new halls of residence but to refurbish its present stock. Having done
that then reorganise the presently inadequately facilities of the
accommodation office so that it can let the premises profitably during the
vacations.
Get rid of Olave House as soon as possible. It loses over £100k a year,
that's equivalent to giving 42 free places in Southside!
2.3 Private Rented Sector
At the beginning of the year I drafted a paper recommending the introduction
of an office to deal specifically with accommodation in the private-rented
sector. The idea was to set up a database of the present accommodation
students use and then to maintain contact with the landlords to ensure that
the flats/houses are retained by IC students. The office would also provide
a central service to students saving them hours of hassle, leg-work, phone
calls and sometimes legal battles. The accommodation office gave the idea
a poor reception, mainly because Miss L O'Callaghan feared for her own
job!! I was persuaded by the new Business Manager, Mr Tom Stevens, that
the office should be located in the present accommodation office but he
would need time to assess the situation. He's still assessing it!!
Recommendations:
The Union goes ahead with plans to survey the students and set-up the
office independently. The survey I believe should be carried out in November
so that the information can be compiled and the office set up in time for
the summer term when students need the help.
3. Welfare
3.1 The distribution of information with regard to student welfare has taken
the form of several campaigns, the most popular of which was the benefits
and rights week early in the year. The Union Welfare Adviser, Yve Posner,
has been kept busy throughout the year with case problems, personal callers
and telephone enquiries.
Commemoration Ball
The venue of the London Dungeon was a very popular one and consequently
the event was a complete sell-out. 400 people ate and a substantial buffet
and boogied the night away. The seven foot giant who dressed up as Dracula
was a little too realistic and bit several people (including me} but apart from
that everything went smoothly and the Bail broke even. I would recommend
that if the venue chosen is a distance from the Union and in an area not
frequented by taxis then a coach be provided to bring guests back to the
Union. Also this was the first year that insurance was taken out against
damage being done and I would urge that this practice is repeated in future
years.
Room Bookings
Room bookings only became part of the Hon See's job decription this year
and had previously been treated in rather a haphazard manner, it is a time
consuming business and I would estimate that it has taken up about on
third of my time. The rooms are very much in demand and the Union has
the potential to make the system a very lucrative one. To facilitate this
development, I have compiled a room bookings directory which will make
Murray's job a lot easier and also writen a new set of terms and conditions
after consultation with College security, the Union Bar licensees and Rob
Northey.
Elections
This section of my job has been hit by the general student apathy that is
currently affecting Imperial, with fewer candidates trying for posts. The
sabbatical elections prod uced their usual batch of petty bickering and this
was mainly due to an archaic set of election rules which can be interpreted
in as many ways as there are candidates. Therefore myself and this year's
Elections Committee will be doing something about the situation and writing
an unambiguous version. One thing that is completely certain about this
coming year's sabbaticals is that the staff in the Union Office had nothing
to do with their choice and any accusation to the contrary is frankly libel.
Publicity
Numerous poster raids were run this year but only a few fines were dished
out. This probably had something to do with House Committee upping the
fine per day for an out of date poster from 5p to 25p! There are no guidelines
laid down as to what the Hon Sec should consider 'offensive' so I have
had to rely on personal opinion to decide what should grace the walls of
the Union Building and the Sherfield Walkway. Ben Turner's infamous 'Great
Recommendations:
Next year's President organises all prospective campaigns during the
Summer vacation to ease the running of them. A benefits and rights week
should still be held and Paul Shanley's idea of giving financial advice should
be included in this campaign.
3.2 Next year students from both home and overseas will face financial
hardship through a combination of low income and lack of state benefits.
Recommendations:
The college has set up by October 1990 a hardship fund into which
Government access fund and a slice of overseas students fees should be
placed. A panel should be responsible for disbursing the funds to students
strictly on a needs basis. The Imperial Trust should be encouraged to attract
funds specifically for the hardship fund.
4. External Affairs
4.1 Loans
After fighting hard unfortunately the loans are in. I honestly don't think
that college helped the students one iota until it was too late. My thanks
to Governing Body members who did finally help by writing to MPs.
Recommendations:
Every single student should be encouraged to take out a loan whether they
need it or not, Those people who don't need it could possibly be persuaded
to invest their in say the hardship fund where a slice of the high interest
earned could be used to supplement the hardship fund.
4.2 Local Council Elections
The attempt to get our own councilors on to the local council has had a
very good effect. Talks are about to start with Councilors for the
Knightsbridge ward with a view to improving relations and to sort out some
of the difficulties we presently have. With a full election campaign attracting
more external voters I believe it is possible to get our own councilors elected.
Recommendations:
iJThe Union proceeds with talks with the local councilors but not to let certain
college dignitaries muck it up by pushing for change too quickly.
ii)The Union puts up candidates for the next local council election and
mounts a six month campaign to win.
4.3 NUS Affiliation Referendum
Unfortunately this did not happen this year due to certain members of the
Conservative Society using the constitution and bye-laws to scrap the
referendum vote. I believe open debate should be held about the pros and
cons of joining the NUS.
Recommendations:
i)Next year's President invites the NUS to come and debate the future of
the NUS at IC and straight after hold a referendum.
ii)That the decision to do this should be an Exec decision and should not
be interfered with by minority activists.
5. Overseas Students
In this area I have been distinctly quiet, my thanks to the Overseas Students
Committee Chairman, Mr W Van Hulten, in covering this area. Overseas
students face one specific problem that of entering into and embracing a
foreign culture. The rest of their problems I believe are very similar to home
students though they are exacerbated by the pressure from their fee paying
bodies (governments, sponsors, etc.! I think the only way to overcome the
problem of alienation is to make friends quickly once here. To this extent
the student overseas societies are very effective but they are not a much
widely publicised as I would like to see.
Recommendations:
i)AII overseas incoming students be given a host to guide them through
the first few weeks of being in the UK.
ii}Lists of overseas student societies be sent to prospective overseas
students so that correspondence can be struck up with an aim to clarifying
the problems of studying and living at IC.
Tits' poster offended a lot of people and for this I am sorry. I think that
after doing science 'A' levels and a science degree, I have become immune
to sexism. The lady I spoke to from NALGO suggested that a meeting be
arranged btween the Hon Sec and a representative from that Union to
discuss the content of publicity emanating from IC Union and I think this
would be a good move for Marray to take.
Entertainments
The Ents Committee have not only worked hard this year but have also
taken an extremely professional approach to every event that they have
organised. There have been times when they have had to put their own
safety at risk (see 'Crime') and still they have managed to keep a mature
attitude, BJ and I have not always seen eye to eye but we developed a
very reasonable working relationship nevertheless. I very rarely saw any
of the bands on offer as I was acting as security but I heard most of them
and we enjoyed a variety of styles ranging from heavy metal to reggae to
ska to funk.
Crime
Drugs reared their ugly head several times during the course of the year
and were accompanied by violence and vandalism. The police caught onto
this and warned us that we would put our bar licence in jeopardy if we
weren't more careful. A clampdown on room bookings and general event
security followed and we saw little or no evidence of drugs again.
Unfortunately I fear that they have just moved elsewhere on the campus.
Alcohol makes some people prone to violent acts and we saw a nasty
fight in the Union Bar involving a bar stool as a weapon. There was also
the incident involving two blokes who tried unsuccessfully to get into an
Ents event for free and then proceeded to attempt to beat up two members
of the Ents Committee and the Duty Officer. The situation got out of hand
and the police were called. Unfortunately the message lost something in
translation and a patrol car, 3 Astras, a dog van and about 20 policemen
arrived on the scene seconds later. The explanation from me to them was,
almost certainly, the most embarrassing time of my year! I developed a very
good relationship with PC Law, the local community bobby and he assures
me that this is a very safe area in which to live, with no sexual attacks
on women reported over the last year. However, knowing that many women
in College (both students and staff) live out of Westminster, I organised
a self-defence evening. Despite publicity the evening was poorly attended
but the graphic demonstration and TV programme were extremely useful
to those who did.
6. St Marys
Relations this year have been much better than last. Basically nothing has
been done apart from extending and accepting invitations to committees,
parties and functions. Now I think the time is right to start discussions on
matters such as:
i)What does college expect the two student unions to do?
ii)What do the student unions expect or want from each other?
Until these questions are answered it is pointless thinking up grand schemes
to merge the two bodies.
Recommendations:
i)Find the answers to the questions
ii)Carry on enjoying each other's company and parties!
7.Athletics
7.1 Harlington
After several years, several discussions, loads of meetings, gripes and groans
an Astroturf is at long last being installed at Harlington. The pitch should
be ready by October 1990. Along with the installation of our own, come
promises of a second astroturf to be financed by the council at Harlington.
This bodes well for the future of Harlington being a dual corporate/college
facility thus generating some income from a not highly used facility.
Recommendations:
ilCollege presses ahead to install a second astroturf and to invite local
schools and companies to become corporate members.
7.2 Harlington Trust
Still the arguments carry on as to who decides to spend what, where and
when. Meanwhile the Trust stands at £2.2 million with only the astroturf
having been considered so far. The Imperial Trust has now set precedents
that it wishes applications for sports facilities to go to the Haflington Trust.
At last the proper use of the Trust:
Recommendations:
i)The Harlington Trust be used for sports and athletics facilities until such
time as they are up to standards required by the competing teams.
ii)The Harlington Trust be used to develop
alSports Hall at South Ken (see the ACC report)
b)A health club underneath Southside
c)The sports centre so that its facilities are up to date and a pleasure to use.
That concludes my report to the students of this college. I will be making
further reports and recommendations to other bodies including the incoming
sabbaticals.
For the last part of my report I would like to say a few thanks;
First and foremost to Karen for putting up with me doing a job with shitty,
anti-social hours; maybe now we can get back to normality and reality!
To Yve Posner and Jackie Scott for running the Welfare side of the Union.
To Hal Calamvokis for his immense help on the loans issue.
To Tom Yates for his much needed advice and assistance in the local
council elections.
To Fiona, Dave Williams, Dave Smedley for being understanding,
sympathetic and supportive at all the appropriate times.
To the Rector for being the Rector. The experience will stand me in good
stead for my future career (care assistant in a mental hospital!!).
To Bob Westaway, Peter Mee, John Smith, Angus Frazer, Ken Weale
and all the treasurers, Sir Frank Cooper, Pat Holmes, for being open, honest
and available to talk to and help where possible.
Lastly and most certainly not least thanks to all the staff of the Union;
Jen, Michelle, Pat, Reggie, Louise, David, Yve, Jellie, Ian, Yvonne, Rose,
Andrew. You've all been marvelous to work with even though I haven't
been the most perfect of bosses!
Neil McCluskey President 89/90
Fiona Nicholas
Other Bits
The CCU Dinners were great fun and, without exception, I enjoyed them
all. I apologise for the standard of my jokes but I did at least try and suit
them to the style of dinner I was attending. The biggest mistake I made
was letting Beef 'look after' me at the Geology Dinner. The hangover was
horrendous! We enjoyed a lot of American presence at our events and
particularly memorable was the Hallowe'en Party when the fancy dress was
fantastic. Mark Edwards, who is responaible for entertainments at the AIFS
deserves special mention as he was a great help with publicity to the
American students at his establishment. Exec Initiative was an experience.
'Initiative' consisted of hiding between four of us a total of £70, three credit
cards, a cash point card a a tool with which we managed to break our chains.
We did a pub crawl and collected money and made our way back on the
train. I was sold as a slave for £60 and ended up cooking for a dinner party
of nine maths students. As I enjoy cooking, this was not too much of a
hardship.
The Christmas Caper was fun and the Union's contribution was a stand
making stained glass windows. We must have delighted at least twenty
children.
Conclusions
I have enjoyed my time as Hon Sec and I think it has taught me a lot about
people and life in general. Students have found me approachable and have,
on the whole, come and ta Iked to me if they think that I have done something
wrong or taken, according to them, a strange decision. There has, almost
always, been an explanation.
Thanks
This is the sickly part of any report but essential, I'm afraid:
BJ for being BJ. Emma Skitt for being a fantastic Ents Treasurer and a nice
person. The Ents Crew for being a laugh to work with. All the Duty Officers,
especially Mylan and Doug. Ian Morris for teaching me about photocopier
salesmen. Terry Briley for being a constant source of advice. Jelly for being
Jelly and also for having the driest sense of humour in existence. Dramsoc
for some good parties. Neil and Dave Williams for putting up with me in
the office. All the Union Office staff, especially Jen and Michelle. Tom Yates
for being disgusting. Nick for being,
All that remains to be said is 'Good luck, Murray!'.
Fiona Nicholas
Honorary Secretary (Events)

