Welfare Officer
—Jackie Scott
My first job was the editing of the Union Welfare Handbook. As it hadn't
been updated for at least four years editing turned into totally rewriting.
With a lot of help from FELIX, and Yve (who wrote all the technical bits
about Benefits etc.!!) we managed to produce a well-presented, and readable
booklet. As a lot of the Benefits are no longer paid to students the handbook
will require an insert updating it for next year. The Welfare Officer will be
employed over the Summer for this purpose, and also to plan the Campaigns
for the coming academic year.
Of this year's campaigns the Benefits and Rights Campaign was probably
the most successful. This was due to the fact that it took place right at
the beginning of the academic year, and it was planned during the time
that I was employed over the Summer. When term began it became
impossible to find sufficient time to plan Campaigns as thoroughly as was
necessary, or to be available on the day, as I was stuck in lectures and labs!!
Yve and Neil therefore did most of the planning and organisation for all the
campaigns that took place after that. The problems were exemplified by
the Stress Campaign planned for the beginning of this term, which never
took place, due to a lack of time to allow the necessary planning, by myself,
Yve or Neil. Although I did manage to find the time to write an article in
FELIX on the subject, between finals and my final year project,
1 have spent a certain amount of time this year trying to get College to
sort out the problems in the Union Building concerning Alarms, The only
Alarms at present are in the Ladies toilets outside the Union Office, but
further alarms are required in the toilets on the central staircase and also
in the Union Gym changing rooms, (a particularly isolated area) I wrote to
Angus Fraser and received a reply to the effect that the matter would be
looked into, Dave Williams has received quotes for the work but nothing
more has been done. I hope it is a matter which next years Deputy President
and Welfare Officer will be able to see through to completion,
A major problem this year has been the difficulty I have had in finding
enough time to complete the job as well as I would have liked. Maybe next
years Welfare Officer could look into giving the ordinary members of Welfare
Committee more responsibility for the planning of Campaigns. If the two
ordinary members helped out practically, instead of just attending Welfare
Committee then hopefully the Campaigns could be run without so much
dependence on help from the President and Yve.
Jackie Scott.
Publications Board
—Doug King
Fortunately it is really easy to write an annual report for Publications Board
as I don't have to do much and you can all see the results anyway.
FELIX has built up a really dedicated staff this year under Dave Smedley's
ileadership and has created a really sound base for future years. Dave's other
big achievement this year has been to get the print unit on a sound financial
footing and running as a professional business. A lot of credit must go to
the FELIX permanent staff. The place wouldn't run without Rose Atkins,
and Andy Thompson has become totally invaluable after starting the job
at the beginning of the year with no idea of what he was letting himself in for,
IC Radio has seen some major technical improvements this year with the
upgrading of much of their network and equipment. A new studio has been
fitted out on the Northside and Prince's Gardens increasing their production
capacity as programmes can now be recorded without interrupting
broadcasting. Interest in the station has really taken off this year with a
large increase in membership over previous years. Thanks to Matt Reeve
and his band of stalwarts for directing things down there.
STOIC has, as usual, been run by a handful of hardened enthusiasts, but
through a high public profile, filming at all major events, they have managed
to recruit a fair number of new members. Much of the year has been spent
making technical advances, for instance the live simultaneous broadcast
of the election hustings with IC Radio, A lot of money has been spent on
new equipment this year so the future looks rosey. The number of SCAB
performances they have been asked to film can only endorse the quality
of their product this year. Thanks to Ian and Rory and their crew.
I would like to thank all the publications and the rest of the Pub Board
exec for being a really easy going bunch and making my job so easy that
I really can't think of anything I've had to do worth writing about.
Pub Board AGM and elections are on Tuesday 5th June at 6.30pm in
the Union Dining Hall.
Doug King.
Industrial Relations
Committee —Nick Lay
No-I'm not concerned with negotiating sabbaticals' pay, but with
encouraging a closer relationship between IC Union, its clubs and societies
and industry. Or so I thought this time last year. In fact most of the
Committee's time has been taken up with running the Careers Fair, which
the Union took over from the Industrial Society last year. As a result, the
Careers Fair made a surplus of around £20,000 which has been used to
finance students using the College Nursery, new equipment for the Careers
Office, travel expenses for attendance at European student conferences
and computing equipment for IC Union and the CCUs.
Due to the amount of time devoted to decisions on what the Careers Fair
earnings should be spent on and concerns over the accountability of the
Committee, IRC next year will solely act as a 'sorting office' for claims and
make recommendations to UFC which will make the final decision. The aim
this year (and I hope next year} is to fund projects which will either be
impossible to fund any other way or benefit a large number of students
or encourage relations between students and industry, especially in Europe.
Ideally projects would fall into several of these categories.
The transfer of funding decisions to UFC should allow the committee more
time to act as a 'think-tank' and to catalyse closer (and more lucrative) links
between the Union and industry. At the time of writing, there have been
no nominations for this post, so if you are interested in an interesting and
practical post in the Union, please see me. Perhaps a new name for the
Committee should be your first move!
Nick Lay.
Transport Officer
—Mylan Lester
The fleet has stayed at seven vehicles which is considered optimum. An
unprecedented number of bookings, especially at weekends, has resulted
in a few people not getting a van when they wanted one. A van may be
leased in to cover these bookings in the first term of the year. The old green
heap (OLE) has been scrapped and a new van purchased (YRK).
A number of changes to the administration of the fleet has led to increased
efficiency and a better understanding of the services offered. A few
disciplinary matters have come up and these have mostly been concered
with late returns, late payments and extremely dirty vans being returned.
These offences are being tolerated less and less and I would advise all drivers
to refamiliarise themselves with the regulations.
It is now thought that the harmonisation of EC driving regulations will
not effect us as badly as we first thought, although details are still not fully
known.
Mylan Lester.
Internal Services—
—Chris Stapleton
This year, we have seen a dreadful struggle to salvage the Union Snack
Bar, which is not yet over, as well as the dramatic refurbishment of the
book shop and the loss of a good manager to a better offer.
ISO is one of the worst jobs you can do. You sit on more committees
than any of the other officers and it takes up a lot of your time. Most of
this is spent going nowhere. In its present form it is merely a powerless
deputy to the deputy president which is pointless. If someone is going to
look after the business/service outlets then there is no point duplicating
the job.
I therefore recommend that the post as it stands is abolished and a new
one formed with the same general interests. It should have a different
emphasis and power to make firm decisions. This matter is not one for a
committee but for the deputy president elect, who should decide what form
the help he requires should take. This may be in the style of a management
committee with the equivalent ISO taking the chair.
That's the main bulk of my report. A few words now to answer some
of the criticism that I have had.
I only took up the job after no other takers had chosen to do so. This
was after three opportunities. My only real interest lay with the snack bar
as I knew I had no time to do the whole job. It was better I thought to have
someone doing something than nothing in this area.
The majority of the criticisms put before the union general council last
were unfounded. The solo efforts described by the deputy president are
not true. I have done a lot of work but recently due to exam and course
work pressure I have been unable to do anything for the union, or Felix
for which I am the editor elect!
Chris Stapleton.
Social and Cultural
Amusements Board
—Joseph Andrews
On the whole, I feel that it has been a successful year for SCAB. As well
as being very impressed by the activities of the constituent clubs this year
I have been encouraged by the steadily thawing relations between SCAB
and the Choir.
SCAB has run two main functions:
(i) To oversee the expenditure of the performing arts societies at College
and to present claims for subsequent years to the Union for appraisal (or
otherwise!).
(ii) To run Scabnite, a kind of vareity show, which raises money for Rag.
The expenditure side has run very smoothly this year-a lack of selfish
socieites seems to have been the key.
Scabnite was enjoyed by those who watched it, but in all honesty the
audience could have been very much larger. I take most of the blame for
this, as I did not order any tickets for advance sale, but part of it must lie
with Guildsheet's Ray Week League Table which placed Scabnite at the
bottom. My objection to this table is on the grounds that all Ragweek events
try to raise money for charity and some of them sell out. The League Table
means that the overflow from a packed Hypnosis Lecture won't go to see
Scabnite instead because it is not rated as highly. Fortunately, Scabnite
did make a small profit for Rag this year so all's well that ends well.
As far as the individual clubs and societies are concerned, most would
appear to have enjoyed a productive nine months.
Chamber Music have had a busy year putting on several very enjoyable
concerts and a piano masterclass. The emergence of an extremely promising
piano quintet is also encouraging.
Choir have had one of their most successful years eve, the high point
of hwich was probably the Alumnus Day concert at the end of 1989 which
attracted over 700 people.
Dramsoc have done very well this ession to lift themselves from being
a despairing society, with few members, into one which puts on plays as
well as crewing events in the Union Building, As usual Dramsoc is off to
Edinburgh in August for the Festival.
Filmsoc's year has been a fraught one as the exec struggled to fight off
final year exams on the one hand while, on the other, discovering that their
most trustworthy supplier of parts for their projector had developed chronic
senile dementia. They still found time, remarkably, to put on some films,
including the perennial favourite, Betty Blue.
Jazz and Rock club has swung between highs and lows all year. The saga
of soundproofing the practice room still drags on but the cabaret evening
organised jointly with Dramsoc and RCSU was hugely successful and will
probably be repeated.
Opsoc started the year shakily and their Christmas Show had to be
cancelled, but bounced back in February with a rousing production of Gilbert
and Sullivan 'Utopia Ltd'. For the umpteenth year running they are off on
their summer tour to Devon.
Finally, Orchestra have had one of their best years for a while. Although
the annual weekend at Silwood Park was lost, the music has been of a high
standard, pieces such as Bernstein's West Side Story and Schostakovich
10 being tackled.
That's it. Best wishes to my successor.
Joseph Andrews.
Athletics Clubs Committee
—Ben Turner
Sport for competition, or merely for fitness and pleasure, has continued
to gain strength at Imperial College this year. The number of clubs operating
actively as part of the ACC has increased with the addition of Cycling,
Shaolin Kung Fu, Yacht and Tai Chi. Several clubs have introduced a
women's section, including Ladies Football, Water Polo and Basketball, as
well as an attempted revival of Ladies Rugby.
Successes in the Universities Athletic Union (UAU) competitions and
against other University of London (UL) colleges are greater than ever before.
Fencing and Boat Club have both achieved the accolade of national UAU
Champions. Four Boat Club members are in the Great Britain trials for the
World Championships. Hockey 3rd XI reached the semi-finals of their UAU
competition, as did Badminton 2nd team and Tennis in the winter
tournament. Ladies Water Polo came runners-up in the National Universities
Tournament in their first year of operation. As usual, nearly all of the Rugby,
Football and Hockey teams qualified for the last sixteen knockout rounds
of the UAU.
Many teams at IC form the backbone of UL teams. In Judo, UL reached
the semi-finals of the British Universities Sports Federation tournament
supported by three of our competitors. IC's teams dominate the sports scene
in London, with Rugby 1st XV winning the Gutteridge Cup, Hockey 1st
XI winning the UL Division 1 title, and Football 2nd XI taking the UL First
Division title.
Teams from many clubs will be touring European countries this summer,
including France, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland and Norway. A specialist
team from the Yacht Club entered the Spi Dauphine Race, an international
competition in the south of France. Although not finishing high in the leader
board, a massive amount of sponsorship was raised by the team members
and IC received wide exposure amongst European companies and
universities. The IC team was voted the team that was the best
representative for their sponsor by 'Le Figaro',
Policy was passed at a UGM to restructure the travel subsidy for
representative sport. Although approved by the students, the funds are not
yet available from College to carry out this scheme.
A lot of time has been spent dealing with matters concerning other
universities. I must mention Simon Holden, ACC Vice-Chairman, who not
only performed the onerous task of coordinating all of the UAU matches,
but also dealt with several problems arising from our teams' away trips to
other campuses! Simon and I have been involved in discussions to
restructure the UAU competition, which will have a wider implication on
the whole of student sport in Britain.
Several St Mary's students are competing as part of IC clubs, including
Boat, Fencing and Ladies Water Polo. The general feeling there though is
that most clubs do not want to integrate with their IC counterparts.
So, with what is arguably the best university sporting record in the south
of Britain, where are the facilities to attract undergraduates of high
competitive standard; to enable teams and individual competitors to train
for greater success; to provide a sporting arena for the more 'casual'
participants, such as Overseas Students Committee clubs' sports nights
or inter-hail or inter-CCU competitions?
I'm afraid that the sad discovery during my year as ACC Chairman is that
Athletics, and extra-curricular activities in general, have a low priority in
College circles. As a result, we must use a Volleyball Court which is a
crumbling hall in a condemned building (incidentally the hall is not large
enough to play matches, so the Volleyball Club is forced to hire facilities
in Brixton); Badminton have no place with sufficient clearance to train and
play matches than the Great Hall; we have a Sports Centre which is required
by the Governing Body of IC to recoup 80% of its expenditure through
income, thus restricting the plans of the management there (compare this
with St Mary's swimming pool which does not charge for student
admission); we have a sports ground that is a mess in the wake of the
extraction work there-the contractors have not fulfilled their obligation
to reinstate the pitches to a good standard within the agreed timetable,
with the result that the ground will not recover for years.
On a more positive note, Ian Spooner, who will probably take over from
his father, Cliff, as Sports Centre Manager, has introduced the possibility
of building a sports hall on the site of the tennis courts in Princes Gardens.
Not the multi-million pound multi-storey complex envisaged several years
ago, which never had a chance of receiving planning approval. Just a sports
hall-four walls, a roof and a floor surface to provide a start to the
improvement and provision of the facilities the students badly need.
Harlington gravel has begun at last to bear fruit, but it has taken five years
of sustained effort and pressure by ACC representatives, especially members
of the Hockey Club, to have an astroturf pitch laid down at Harlington. Work
is under way now and the pitch should be completed by the end of the
summer.
I'm not going to pretend everything is going well when it isn't. IC has the
worst facilities for sport amongst any of the universities in the UAU, but
sporting success is an essential aspect of representation and competition
to an institution that prides itself on its high standards, and is a good selling
point to potential undergraduates. So College, get your act together, and
help us to develop the facilities that we deserve.
Ben Turner.
Social Clubs Committee
—Stephen Parkus
It has been a fairly uneventful year, in the SCC microenvironment. The new
methods of submitting claims for club grants certainly looks more efficient,
but seemed of little practical use to various people besides myself, other
than for advancing bureaucracy in the Union. The SCC was nevertheless
forced to accept, and clubs made every effort to fit in. Well done to them!
The video stolen last year was replaced in the first term this year.
Other than that, I have tried to reduce the burden of Union politics and
bureaucracy on club chairpeople, I have kept SCC meetings relatively few,
relatively trouble free and relaxed, and blissfully short. I think it is not
appreciated that a lot of work is done in/for the Union by students with
a lot of other equally pressing responsibilities. Having been in my final year,
I have tried to balance my time appropriately, and I take the lack of criticism
as approval.
I would like to say thank you to all the SCC chairpeople for their
cooperation, and to my exec for their support: Simon Bradshaw, Spenser
Lane, Nikki Fox, Lisa Kestenbaum, and Amanda Baker. Spenser especially
put in a lot of work as HJT, keeping the books up to date, sorting out financial
problems, of which there were many, and thus making things much easier
for me.
I would also like to wish good luck to the new team for next year, chaired
by Spenser Lane.
Finally it remains for me to bid farewell.
Stephen Parkus.

