The Punisher
The guy with the red pants and blue tights didn't do
it. The vegetable man didn't do it. The dark guy with
the pointy ears and black cape did. Yes, Batman has
unleashed a flood of super-hero based movies on us.
This Punisher movie is only the vanguard of a whole
series of releases. Captain America is next, with
rumours of Thor, Dr. Strange, Spider-man, Wolverine
and X-Men to come. Comics themselves are just
beginning to gain a sort of begrudging respectability
in this country, but we are still well behind the French
on this, who regard comics (bandes dessinee) as one
of their official art forms. There have been many
The Barbican Centre may occasionally have a good
idea for a theme for a cinema season. This probably
isn't it.
The only reason for staging the films appears to be
'to complement Barbican Art Gallery's exhibition' by
a Polish painter, Jacek Malczeski. One feels they
would also have staged a series of concerts by Polish
composers if only the South Bank hadn't beaten them
to it with their Szymanowski season.
Hang on a minute, there might be a better reason:
the 'films reflect some of the concerns, struggles and
triumphs of Polish film-makers since the Second World
War'. This presumably explains why one pre-war film
has been included. Was this selection of films
dreamed up after a particularly liquid lunch?
If you skip the 'theme', which is misleading and
probably a deterrent, there are rich pickings here. The
Loverboy
Whenever a pizza firm receives an order for a pizza
with extra anchovies the loverboy goes to work. Not
only is Randy Bodek a delivery boy he is also a working
male prostitute. This is, after all, Beverly Hills.
The customers are unhappy rich wives and they
show their appreciation by paying for his return to
college. He wants to go back to college to get back
together with his girlfriend. The plot, however,
thickens and confounds as his father thinks he is gay.
This all sounds like a good basis for a comedy but
it falls wildly short of the mark. The director, Joan
factors in this transformation, including seminal works
such as Watchmen, adult comics like the UK's Crisis
and even the slow, steady work of writers such as
Chris Claremont on books as Excalibur, X-Men and
New Mutants. Unfortunately films so far have not
really reflected this. How does the Punisher fare?
Well, fundamentally the background is the same.
Man goes on punishing mission against criminals after
some gangs kill his family. The details vary somewhat.
In the comics he was a Vietnam vet, not a cop. His
families death was an accident not a planned attack.
These changes actually make the character work
better on screen than the original would have. Another
astute move was abandon the standard super-heroic
skin tight costume to more likely combat attire.
The emphasis is slightly different too. Between
numerous scenes of gratuitous violence (Dakka-
Dakka-Aaargh-Splatter-Thunk) we have a portrait of
a man tipped over the edge by the deaths of those
he loves. He lives in the sewers and has a rather
deviant tendency to meditate in front of candles while
asking God if his actions are right ('I haven't had an
answer yet. Until I do, the guilty will be Punished').
His ex-partner is pursuing him in an attempt to repay
Frank's aid with overcoming a slight propensity
towards alcoholic over indulgence. He is compelled
to actually aid his enemies to help the innocent
children (aaah).
There is also a plot. Something about a gang war
and the Japanese Yakuza (like the mafia, but older)
taking over. Its not actually terribly relevant, being
merely an excuse for The Punisher to shoot things in
programmers have tried to contrast the films of
several directors who have produced work both in
Poland and in 'exile'. Whether the films chosen
accurately reflect the changing concerns of the
directors because of their 'exile' is debatable.
However the season starts with a strong programme
from Roman Polanski [Knife in the Water and
Repulsion, June 8th) and Andrzej Wadja [A
Generation, Kanal and Ashes and Diamonds, June
10th). There are also films from Krzysztof Kieslowski,
whose films based around the Ten Commandments
are currently being show on television [A Short Film
About Love, June 9th, Camera Buff, June 16th and
A Short Film About Killing, June 30th).
Whether the films accurately reflect what has been
going on in Poland over the last forty years is
debatable. Many claim to draw analogies between
between his agonising.
Right. What do we have then? A dark and grim
world, a bit like Batman's Gotham City but more
realistic, with a well motivated hero providing the
special effects people a chance to indulge themselves
with the deaths of some reasonably well motivated
baddies.
Actually its quite an impressive film for its genre,
far superior to the glut of Stallone/Schwarzenegger
films, and a treat for (Over-18) comic fans.
Adam T.
& Present
their subject matter and Poland today (eg Danton, July
1st) and some of them are attempts to recreate an
atmosphere of poverty and deprivation [A Woman On
Her Own, 17th June). The choice of many films from
the fifties and sixties certainly suggest that they are
good enough to stand the test of time as films as well
as social statements.
This season is worth a look if you like to have your
thoughts provoked, although I strongly suggest you
ignore the artificial links and simply enjoy some
excellent cinema. The films are shown on Fridays,
Saturdays and Sundays from 8th June to 1st July in
Cinema 2 at the Barbican Centre. Tickets cost £3.50
(£2,50 concessions) per film and there are subtitles
for the non-English films.
Liz W
Film
Micklin Silver, seems to be too busy getting across
the message that men are a load of bastards, and all
their wives want is a bit of romance (even if it has
to be bought). She may have a point but the film isn't
funny enough, relying on a more physical comedy and
a flying piano.
A funny few minutes when the husbands find out
and the hero nearly sells himself out to his mother but
it gets confused as well. Loverboy has opened, but
quite frankly, don't bother.
Mark Wilde.
Page 3
Polish Cinema: Past

