Harlem Nights
This movie begins at a rate of one obscenity per six
and two-thirds seconds but calms down as it
approaches middle age to about one per fifteen
seconds.
The film tells the story of Sugar Ray (Richard Pryor)
and his unruly adopted son, Quick (Eddie Murphy)
who have built up the most successful 'after hours'
joint in 1938 New York. This makes them none too
popular with gangland boss Bugsy Calhoune (Michael
Lerner). Calhoune sends round his pet bent cop Phil
Cantoune (Danny Aiello) to demand an inordinate
stake in Club Sugar Ray.
The plot is twisting, but runs mainly around the
cross/double-cross that ensues as Our Heroes try to
outwit Calhoune and entourage (said entourage
consisting of vamp Dominique la Rue and
miscellanous extras).
Despite featuring two of the world's hottest
comedians this film still battles against all-star
precedent and manages to be good; both Murphy and
Pryor fend off the temptation to fall into a Jive Turkey
cartoon character double-act and handle the straight
parts with surprising skill, particularly Pryor. This may
disappoint those who expected Beverly Hills Cop
meets Stir Crazy and may account for some of the bad
publicity the film received in the US. Visually the film
is stunning with good cinematography and lighting
bringing out the best in the period scenery. The
Amazing Machine says 'the clothes were bloody
good' and the soundtrack was better. The Flying
Gerbil appreciated the decor and hopes Richie Vento
and Sunshine live happily ever after (a numbers runner
and the prostitute sent to distract him).
Little Love
Film
m
Although the film is not really a comedy Arsenio Hall
(Murphy's sidekick in Coming to America) deserves
a mention for his painfully funny 'Crying Man' who
believes Quick has murdered his brother. Bonus points
also to Eddie Murphy himself for doing absolutely
bloody everything on the production side-writer/
director/producer/star and generally responsible for
the overall look and feel. Redd Foxx and Delia Reese
put in a creditable double-act as a pair of cantankerous
geriatrics; Stan Shaw is good as the stuttering boxer
(to the credit of those concerned the character is not
Theatre
There is much to enjoy in this tale of two dodgy
doctors on the make with new-born babes as the
commodity. In his private clinic, the charming Dr
Francis Patience supplies wealthy childless couples
with infants supposedly unwanted by their natural
mothers. He and partner in crime, Dr Dark, sacrifice
their ethics in return for considerable fiscal reward
from the barren parents-to-be, while Staff Nurse
Careswell looks on disapprovingly while providing a
wry commentary on the proceedings.
Diana and John Hammersley are one such couple
in search of a child. They make a deal with Dr Patience
and Diana fakes a pregnancy complete with false
padding and a spell in the clinic at the time of the
'birth' ie. the handover. But quelle surprise the natural
mother suddenly decides that she wants to keep baby
for herself. The ensuing chaos is cleverly written and
Page 4
is pretty funny although author Stephen Fagan tends
to resort to stereotyping his characters in order to milk
maximum laughs from his audience: Dr Patience's
dithering side-kick, the la-de-daa Diana Hammersley
and Dr Patience himself are all characters we've seen
before, notably in T.V. sitcoms. And the actors,
although reasonably famous (Lord Brigsley in Not a
Penny More, the woman in Drummonds and Douglas
in Chancer), do nothing to break out of these moulds.
Fagan also deals with the subject of adoption in a
flippant manner that hardly broaches upon the severe
anguish many childless couples experience during the
adoption process.
But pathos aside, this production should appeal to
a wide audience and by the time you read this the
actors should be familiar with their lines.
Adrian Pagan.
written to be made fun of) and Richard Pryor takes
the film with his surprisingly good performance as an
elderly club owner with humour and charm.
This film does not feature an excessive level of
violence; the language is undeniably foul (the main
minus point) and the plot, while not too surprising has
the odd revelation.
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine gives the film
four woofs and a potato.
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine.
Berenice
Theatre
Neil Bartlett's quite a 'wow' in English Theatre ngnt
now. He performs on the London Fringe and two years
ago his translation of Moliere's The Misanthrope was
all the rage at the Edinburgh Festival. But he obviously
chose to translate seventeenth century French
playwright Jean Racine's Berenice on an off day.
Titus is emperor of Rome and loves Berenice but
can't make his mind up whether to marry her or not,
as for some reason Roman emperors may not marry
royalty. There's also their close personal friend,
Antiochus, who is also in love with Berenice and
spends the whole two and half hours of the play (no
interval) in the throes of moral dilemma, that is he
dithers about. It's a tedious affair really as there's
remarkably little else to distract one's attention while
the actors wade through a script which is steeped in
long speeches which do nothing to speed up the plot
development which goes about as fast as the M1 on
a Friday evening.
But Bartlett has done his best with the play. He's
installed an interesting set of half-rhymes which,
although not as effective as those he used in TTre
Misanthope, do save the audience from total
boredom. Both the acting and costumes are
unexceptional however and do nothing to save this
snail of a play which really shouldn't be on at the
National Theatre.
Adrian Pagan

