S u m m e r s H o l i d a y
Last week I went to an Ann Summers party. I was
hoping to meet Miss Summers, since it was her party,
but I was sorely disappointed. I have never been so
shocked in my life.
Casually browsing through the catalogue, I was
disappointed by the lack of tupperware accessories.
What sort of party had I let myself in for, I thought?
As a member of the Salvation Army I was rather
bemused by the whole affair.
Why would anyone want to buy half a pair of
knickers? Marks and Spencers sell whole pairs for less
than the price of these 'crotchless' ones-what a con!
The only thought I had was, where are all these three
legged women? And the bras! Well, income support's
one thing but I hardly think those would support my
outgoings.
The more interesting part of the magazine was the
battery powered section. Pictured below is the party
sized unit, recently sold to the Wl. The unit is powered
by six car batteries and comes complete with three
skilled operators.
One of my childhood hobbies. Ann Summers sells
battery powered marbles, which are guaranteed to
win. My children have already put in a bid for a bag-
full. The advantage is, if you lose, they're attached
to a string, just pull and run! The lady retold an
amusing tale of a recent customer who bought the
'super magnet' version of the marbles and a pair of
the aforementioned cheap-skate knickers.
Embarrassment ensued as she met a slight
contratemp with the metal escalator at Kings Cross.
The funny tea stirrers were even odder. Designed
for teacups as deep as 12", the unusual toys buzzed
around the table like tops. I have bought one for the
kids for Christmas, I bet they'll never guess what it
is, until I stir the first cup of tea with it! The lady had
another interesting tale, which warned of the dangers
of electrical interference from these devices, which
are capable of picking up Capital Radio on odd
occasions. The lady added something which said this
implied something about the people who listen to this
station.
Casually flicking further through I discovered a page
on party food -jelly and cream and the like. I was quite
tempted by the strawberry flavourings. The idea of
edible knickers seemed a good one for those people
who like to travel light, with a hasty snack on board.
The oddest thing of all was the builders' cream for
people who want their buildings to last longer. 'Erecto'
The world's largest tea stirrer, pictured above, has a left
hand thread according to the sales woman.
made some particularly unusual claims and the cream
for cleaning football studs was just plain ridiculous.
Keep your strength up!!
with
SAUCY NIBBLES FROM THE
S
E
X
Y S
N
A
C
K B
A
R
In Beit Quad every lunchtime
I found the sherry section especially interesting.
That rare Fino, 'Spanish Fly' was on offer as well as
a fine line in 'Blue Nun,' an informative video on drink
in nunneries.
The fascinating section on terrorists from the North
of Spain was very informative. I had no idea you could
purchase a separate Basque all of your own. If the
terrorist causes any trouble simply hang it with the
suspenders that come as. a set. Another unusual
section was that on nets capable of holding fish tightly
in their grasp. The legendary fishnet tights were
available in all sizes, from cod to whale.
For the musically minded the magazine had a
section concerning guitar strings. The edition in
question was particularly uninspiring. 'Air on a G-
string', was the only tune possible from the selection
available.
The oddest moment of all was at the end of the
party when the saleswoman asked us all to have a
'whip round'. I was just searching through my purse
for some loose change, when she produced a large
leather thong. The thong was just a typographical
error however, and I escaped unharmed by the thing.
Page 5

