Adam Tinworth describes how this week'spapers approached Tuesday's emotivepress conference
The dirt that stays in
Tuesday's Press Conference by the survivors of the
shooting in Roermond gave the national papers the
perfect excuse to print reams of articles that their
busy hacks had time to research in the time since the
murders. Pictures of Lyndal Melrose and Vicky Cross
partners of Stephan Melrose and Nick Spanos, who
were killed by the IRA, were available to fill the front
pages, so the opportunity was there to be taken.
The only paper which chose not to cover the Press
Conference, or even follow up the basic story was the
Financial Times which focussed upon more fiscal
matters as usual.
Every other national paper carried some aspect of
the story on the front cover, save only the Sport. It
relegated the story to page two, preferring to run a
story on "Kim's Naked Secret" and a huge advert for
its free Royal Jelly offer, complete with a picture of
a scantily clad female. The story itself was told in a
very bland, featureless style, with a retelling of the
tragedy and elaboration in the form of quotes from the
conference. Interestingly, Vicky Cross' comment that
'We were just sitting ducks.' was used twice and also
as part of the headline. Perhaps the writer was of the
opinion that the average Sport reader needs to be told
things repeatedly before they make any impression.
The Sun goes all out for sensationalism. 'Just Like
A Horror Film' screams the headline, misquoting Mrs
Melrose who used the term "Movie". Mrs. Melrose
was 'fighting back the tears' as her husband was
'riddled with bullets'. The rest of the article consists
mainly of two long quotes from the conference, one
from each of the women. Of all the papers, The Sun
places most emphasis on ages, giving the age of
virtually everybody involved, even telling us how long
the Lyndals were married. On pages four and five,
they ran some back up articles under the banner
'Slaughter of the innocents'. The Sun's main rival The
Mirror uses a similar banner complete with masked
figure-'Horror in Holland'-and even The Express has
its 'Murder Of The Innocents'. The main article in the
paper consists of a tribute to the murder victims from
family, friends and colleagues. They even manage to
find a capital punishment angle—'I'd execute killers'
is the caption under a picture of Mr. Melrose (59). A
small piece on Australian premier Bob Hawke's
reaction, and a slightly larger piece on warnings to
British holidaymakers abroad, finish off The Sun's
coverage.
The Mirror's front page confronts you with two full
colour pictures of the survivors, both looking on the
verge of tears. This is a fair warning of the style of
the rest of the pieces. While The Sun went for drama,
77te Mirror played it for horror. The gunmen unleashed
'a merciless 10 second burst of gunfire' and the
survivors were 'waiting to die'. Its obsession with
ages is nearly as bad as The Sun's. It places much
less importance on the tributes to the victims,
concentrating mainly on their promising careers as
lawyers. Much more space is given over to Brits
abroad and warnings and reports that the army are
still not changing their policy on number plates. There
is also a quote from an IRA fund raiser in Melbourne
who hoped the tragedy would not affect the cash
supplies to the IRA from down-under.
The Mirror also manages to pick up on the fact that
a man who works in the same building as the victims,
was gunned down in Essex ninety minutes before the
Page 6
. -1 i»ff«r , , , < > v
shooting. Unsurprisingly, they report that The Police
have ruled out a link. The Mirror Comment writer
devotes his column to telling foreigners that they
should stop looking on the IRA as freedom fighters and
treat them as 'the evil and cowardly men' they are.
The Daily Star (The Paper That Gives It To You
Straight) prints a huge picture of the two ladies on the
cover weeping 'For Their Lost Love' along with three
small bite-sized paragraphs of information in large type
for those who can't cope with the articles on pages
four and five. The main article is another retelling of
the story with quotes. The only noticeable aspect is
that it contradicts all the other papers in claiming that
Stephen Melrose was packing away his camera gear,
not setting it up. The parents/friends story
concentrates on \ tere the parents are to have their
sons buried, while a third article compares Australians
fund raising for the IRA to NORAID in the US. Further
into the paper they devote half a page to a 'Top
Boffin'-Prof. Paul Wilkinson (Director, Research
Institute for the Study of Conflict and Terrorism)-
and his proposals for dealing with terrorists in Europe.
after the Roermond shootings.
head and not on your hands
They are the only paper to reprint a picture of the
immediate aftermath of the attack.
The Daily Express seems to have decided to play
up the courageous family in the face of IRA violence
angle, with a nod to Worldwide Outrage, and
headlines like 'Women united in grief bravely tell their
story' and 'Mothers moving message to IRA's random
killers'. The main spread covers most of pages one,
two and three, the body article covering more ground
using excerpts from the Press Conference and cut
down versions of what appears in the other articles.
These largely consist of one telling of a universal
negative reaction to the killings—'Even murderers'
own backers are feeling sickened'-police plans to set
up anti-terrorist bases in Europe. On the centre pages
there is another two page spread including an
interview with the mother of Stephan Melrose.
Ironically you have to remove a supplement called
'staying alive' to read this.
The Mail writer, Tracey Harrison, initially gets a little
over dramatic, despite the fact that the Mail is the only
tabloid not to make the story its lead. Phrases like
'numbed and bewildered', 'ten seconds of horror that
wrecked their lives' and 'voices breaking' flow thick
and fast. Eventually the style settles down, and the
article manages to combine the press conference,
parents and tribute stories into one. The only other
article is a discussion on potential steps to foil the
terrorists.
Today takes a radically different approach,
describing the press conference in a narrative style.
'I still don't quite believe it has happened. Her voice
was barely audible because it is difficult to project
your voice when tears are already in your eyes...' This
spreads over the front page and much of page five
in a chatty, yet tragic tone of voice that is easy to
read, moderately informative but not very impartial.
The inevitable tribute story and a comment column
are also here calling for us to 'Salute these brave
women'.
The Independent takes a factual angle on the front
page (as ever) choosing the confirmation that there
were two gunmen, not one, as the most important
piece of news in the story. On page 2 they give further
details of exactly what was said at the press
conference, resurrect the debate on servicemen's cars
and give the reaction of people living in the town
where the murder took place and towns to which
armed forces overseas bases are attached. They also
link this with reports of the negotiations between
Britain and Ireland and the Ulster parties and police
attacks on Haughey on extradition policy.
77?e Guardian covers the basic facts of the story and
the press conference on the cover, with further
discursive articles inside. The most important of these
is one that apparently crushes hopes that photographs
taken by one of the victims might provide clues to the
identity of the victims. Many of the other papers were
claiming that this was very possible. The other articles
are fairly standard-police in Europe and negative-
reaction articles. The Austin cartoon makes reference
to the events with a man finding 'Sorry about the
murder' cards in a greeting cards rack.
Following on in a similar form is The Telegraph, with
a factual piece on page one leading onto the rest of
the articles on page three. The articles are fairly
standard covering army number plates, warnings to
tourists and international outrage. It devotes several
column issues to media coverage of the shootings, the
biggest section of which was about its own coverage.
Rather tenuously linked in, are warnings that
trespassing on military bases could lead to unfortunate
shootings, after four youths were discovered
wandering round RAF Barnham.
Covering things in a similar fashion is The Times,
with the familiar format of facts on cover, rest inside.
The police in Europe article is there, as is the greater
detail on survivors comments and the outrage article,
although this is confined to Australia. The article on
Army plates is much more positive than the other,
suggesting that army drivers may be able to obtain
German plates, thus increasing safety.
The broadsheets show remarkable uniformity when
presented with a story with little party political
alignment. The same basic articles are repeated again
and again throughout all the papers although the
tabloids do tend to right things in their own inimitable
style, especially the red masthead titles.
My opinion of these papers? As the FT would say,
No Comment.
Page 7

