Annual Reports
Congratulations to everyone who submitted an annual
report on time. The reports in this issue go to the
annual general meeting of the union in June. I hope
that this meeting will not back down and allow
officers who have not handed in a written report to
report verbally. Officers were requested to hand in
their reports for this week in the last set of council
minutes as well as last week's issue of FELIX; I do
not believe the meeting should accede to the usual
whines of 'not knowing about it,' in these
circumstances. The only report which I find
particularly notable by its absence is that of the
Academic Affairs Officer (AAO). The work of the AAO
should influence everybody's courses (whether it does
or not varies between departments]. The fact that an
officer of this importance has not produced an annual
report is disgusting.
Internal Affairs
Neil McCluskey has written to FELIX this week to
complain at my treatment of Fiona Nicholas in last
week's FELIX. I am not going to drag over last week's
editorial, this is not what I see as being at stake. Neil
has made veiled threats of something far more sinister
than just crying libel. He has decided to make this an
internal matter. What does he mean by this?
Last Friday saw hasty talks in the Union Office.
Amongst the whinges and whines were threats to
stop the funding of FELIX for the rest of this year and
to stop my wages. So much for IC Union encouraging
a free press... The old chestnut of 'Make the FELIX
editor report to a UGM,' almost certainly cropped up.
The view is one which is widely held by most
Presidents who are incapable of bearing any criticism
of the Union or its sabbaticals.
Imperial College Union would like to be able to
govern its own newspaper. 'We pay for it, so we
should have control over it!' they always cry. The
question which always crops up is, who is 'we'? The
bunch of beaurocrats who term themselves 'The
Union,' or the students of Imperial College? It is a sad
fact that 'Union General Meeting, or UGM' now
means 'A group of about 50 or so hacks who turn up
to gas off their bigotted ideas.'
If a FELIX editor is required to report to UGMs he
can also be forced to do things by one. How long
would it be before FELIX was 'mandated' to print
every clubs article it received (unedited) and every
box-ad it received from the Union, no matter what the
space limitations were? FELIX would become 'The
Union Advertiser,' with page after page of clubs and
ads. The news would be centred around the headline
'Well done IC Union, another winning idea,' and the
editorial would be vetted by the Union President.
Sounds unbelievable? Take a look at a number of other
student newspapers around London. Most of the
contents of them concern their unions' policies and
meetings-even the clubs become second to the egos
of the Union Officers.
I could never accept a move to make the FELIX
Editor a PR man for the Union. FELIX is not here to
tell the students what a wonderful thing their union
is, when it isn't. The fact is, that the union is becoming
ever more secretive about its internal affairs. More and
more documents are labeled 'confidential' and hidden
away. Last year's budgets and actual spending are
headed 'confidential' in the paper they are in, for
instance. Students have a right to know about the
financial affairs of their union if they want to. If FELIX
is gagged by allowing the editor's hand to be forced
by a UGM, who will be able to report and comment
upon these matters?
A rather sudden Council
The Union has called a rather sudden meeting of
Council, its second highest body to a UGM. I do not
know what will appear at this meeting, but I have a
strong suspicion that the aforementioned old chestnut
will come into it somewhere. If you are a member of
council and you oppose a state control of the press
at IC, I would ask you to come to the meeting on
Monday to let Mr McCluskey know what you think
of the idea. The underhand approach of it all, sums
up my fears for the future without a free press.
Wine tasting
Last week's FELIX carried a news story on the national
wine tasting competition at IC. The comments of the
Oxford team were those of a few drunken bad-losers
in my opinion. The event was very successful and not
a fix, as the Oxford team complained. Congratulations
to Kevin McCoen and IC Wine Tasting for winning the
contest, which they deserved after several years of
winning the Peter Dominic national tasting
competition for universities. Sorry to everyone
concerned for last week's article, which I felt, on
reflection, was somewhat negative.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 071 -589 5111 ext 3515).
Editor: Dave Smedley, Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager: Chris Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
Wherever you want
to go
We'll get you there
for less
• Low Cost Flights on Quality
Airlines
• Special Fares for Students
• Weekend Breaks, Tours &
Group Bookings
• Well Travelled Staff to
Guide You
• Over 100 Offices
Worldwide
U L U T R A V E L
Sherfield Building
Imperial College E3
ULU TRAVEL
Pay for your
holiday in
just 9 days...
ARE YOU WONDERFUL?
If you are smart, versatile and tireless, you can earn
HUNDREDS of pounds injust 9 days from Saturday
30th June to Sunday 8th July.
Rates of pay are so good we're keeping them secret
for the moment, but you can earn a small fortune
if you're prepared to work all day and night.
Work will be hard and varied, including food
preparation, counter service, washing up and
portering.
For more details and application form, See Deborah
in Room 106 Sherfield, Catering & Conference
Department.

