Wu Shu Kwan Edinburgh
The quarterly wu shu kwan grading took place on
Sunday May 20. As usual the IC students showed
high standard forms and fixed sparring rounds,
especially the pasting given by Cath D to Leonard
Ong. The pass rate of 100% reflects the first class
teaching available. Congratulations to all the students
that took part.
Cath Drake
Leonard Ong
Stuart Hughes
Rory Bannerman
Bjom Siedentopf
Chas Brereton
John Davies
Mark Dawson
Paul Geeson
Youssef Lababidi
Elaine Samuel
Ken Shirakawa
3rd to 2nd grade (Brown)
3rd to 2nd grade (Brown)
4th to 3rd grade (Maroon)
5th to 4th grade (Maroon)
5th to 4th grade (Maroon)
6th to 5th grade (Blue)
7th to 6th grade (Blue)
7th to 6th grade (Blue)
7th to 6th grade (Blue)
7th to 6th grade (Blue)
7th to 6th grade (Blue)
7th to 6th grade (Blue)
Wu shu kwan is a full contact style of kung fu.
Beginners class is on Sunday at 4.30pm in the Union
Gym, new members are always welcome.
Opera
What are you doing this summer? How about two
weeks on the Devon coast involved in any or all
aspects of putting on a show?
Every year a group of people from Imperial College
Operatic Society; singers, stage crew, orchestra and
front-of-house staff (numbering up to 70 people)
travel en masse to Budleigh Salteron, a small friendly
seaside town on the south Devon coast. Once there
we stage ten performances (this year Ruddygore by
Gilbert and Sullivan) to large and enthusiastic
audiences. What else do we do? Well, we also seem
to have a very good time, the sun usually shines on
us, there are lots of good beaches, picturesque walks
(what is this, a travelogue?), temporary membership
of the local tennis and croquet clubs and we have lots
of parties and barbeques, including the infamous
concert party where many people display hitherto
quite unsuspected talents. We also give a charity
concert at a local church, which gives people a chance
to perform more 'serious' music. One evening we
travel to Exeter for a formal(ish) dinner and dance
which is always tremendous fun (and much cheaper
than London).
And now for the really good n e w s -
accommodation, which is camping (inside or outside!)
at a local school plus breakfast for two weeks is £40.
Depending on how well the show does we give up to
£20 refund after the show is over, so your holiday will
probably cost only £20 (what you spend in the pub
is your problem).
If this has whetted your appetite, then why not find
out more, come along to our rehearsal on Tuesday
May 8 at 7.30pm in the Union Lounge (ground floor
Union building) where vile rumour has it there will also
be things to eat and drink. If you are interested, but
not in the singing side of things or if you are in the
middle of exams then phone Sue Foister on ext 7406
or drop a note in the internal mail to OpSoc care of
IC Union Office.
Page 10
Octopush
Putney arrived at the pool and soon began warming
up for the match, eager for revenge after their defeat
in their home pool. The first six minutes of the match
showed how even the teams were, with most of the
play concentrated in mid field. Eventually IC put in the
first goal after a quick break from mid field. IC scored
another goal before the end of the first half. During
half-time rumours surfaced of the octopush equivalent
of a hard ball by IC. Neither team were too worried
though as the offence appeared to have turned out
to Putney's advantage.
The second half was as hard fought as the first with
numerous goals saved off the line at both ends of the
pool. Putney finally managed to beat our defence with
the final score ending up 3:1 to IC.
Phoenix
I'd like first of all to thank all those people who
contributed this year. There were quite a lot of
contributions this year, which should hopefully lead
to an interesting Phoenix. Unfortunately it has also
meant that I have been unable to include all material
submitted. I hope no one will be too offended.
I am presently finishing 'The Phoenix' off and I hope
it will be back from the printers around June 16, and
ready for distribution in the last week of term. Anyone
who wasn't able to get hold of one around College
should come to the FELIX Office where there will be
some extra issues.
Summer is obviously a time to watch and partake in
sport but there are many other past-times which are
ideally suited for this time of year.
If you have a few weeks to spare during August,
why not pop up to Edinburgh for the Festival? Imperial
College Union's Dramatic Society, under the name
Theatre West End, is running a Fringe venue on
Prince's Street for the whole period. The actual Fringe
Festival has become so commercialised over the last
few years that there have been calls for a 'Fringe-
Fringe' Festival.
Theatre West End usually has some really good (as
well as some really naff) plays and revues on over the
three weeks of the Fringe. DramSoc will be performing
Look Back in Anger by John Osbourne and we will
need people to make up the cast and crew this year.
If you can only spare a long weekend, the best time
is between Weeks Two and Three so you can take
in all the IC shows.
Edinburgh gets incredibly crowded for these three
weeks, so don't bother going on the spur of the
moment because you'll never find any
accommodation once you get up there.
If you are chained to Imperial during August, you
will probably get the opportunity to see the Edinburgh
plays performed sometime at the beginning of the
Autumn Term.
Please contact either Helen Roberts (ext 7459) or
the DramSoc Storeroom (ext 3531) for more info.
Chaplaincy
It is a fact of life that, unless someone has either direct
contact or a friend involved with a particular student
society, the chances are they won't have heard of the
society, let alone know anything about it.
On Sunday June 10 there will be an attempt to
change that-at least for one society. A band and
mini-orchestra will play at the usual Sunday morning
meeting in the Sherfield Building, which is being
thrown open to staff and visitors as well. If you can't
get up in the morning, there is an Audio-Visual
presentation at 11.30am
Chaplains—a bunch
of Charlies?
You are invited to the
CHAPLAINCY OPEN DAY
10am, Sunday 10th June 1990
Senior Common Room
Level 2, Sherfield Building,
Imperial College
A chance for you to find out more
about what we do...
WEST LONDON CHAPLAINCY

