news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
News
4 felix Friday 27 February 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
The world beyond
college walls
Edited by Hassan Joudi & Raphael Houdmont
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is expected to announce a $900m
(£630m) donation to help rebuild Gaza at a donor conference in Egypt
on Monday 2nd March.
The move was leaked by a government official who spoke anonymously,
also saying that the aid would be routed through non-governmental organi-
sations and the Palestinian Authority. But any aid would first have to be ap-
proved by Congress. It is estimated that the 22-day war between Israel and
Hamas has caused about $2bn worth of damage in the Gaza strip.
In the run-up to the donor conference, anonymous sources have also re-
ported that Hillary Clinton has been pressing Israel to stop blocking aid to
the besieged Gaza strip. Currently all borders remain closed, with only inter-
mittent opening for supplies classified by Israel as being ‘humanitarian aid.’
The day after the conference Hillary Clinton will visit Israel and the West
Bank, where senior advisors say aid will be a central issue of discussion.
USA
Backin2007,whenVenezuelansfirstdeniedtheirPresidentHugoChavez
the chance to run for more presidential terms after his term expires in
2013, he described the result as ‘shit’
, and promised to reverse it.
Mr Chavez, launched a new campaign, blatantly using state resources for
personal ends. He turned the second referendum into a vote on himself and
won, but only by a slim majority. Similar referendums on the extension of
Presidential powers have taken place in Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru in recent
years.
In a country where oil revenues account for half of the government’s source
of income, when the price falls, the government has reason to be worried.
Oil revenues have plummeted (from $92 billion last year to just $26 billion
this year), and Mr. Chavez’s
support may slip along
with it. His socialist move-
ment gains its support from
Venezuela’s poor, but the
President assures them they
would not suffer from the
crisis. If his support base
continues to slide, he will
be handing over an indefi-
nite stay in power to the en-
croaching opposition, come
the next elections.
Venezuela
Bangladesh
Chaos erupted in the streets of Dhaka, the Bangladeshi capital, after the
mutiny of a group of boarder security forces resulted in one death and
left many wounded.
The dispute was allegedly over pay, working conditions, discrimination and
career advancement and the newly elected government has already stepped
in and offered amnesty to the mutineers who have now returned to their
barracks.
The event revealed just how fragile the democracy is in Bangladesh. It has
only recently emerged from several years of military rule. Much of the mili-
tary’s revenue now comes
from the UN, as Bangladesh
is one of the largest con-
tributors to UN Peacekeep-
ing Forces. The large bounty
from the UN, which also
compensates the govern-
ment, does not benefit the
border security forces, and
this large discrepancy in
salary may well have flared
Wednesday’s violence.
Bumper year for ICU RAG
RAG week: crazy kids doing crazy things in the name of charity
Last week’s Imperial College Union
RAG Week was a resounding success;
featuring the RCSU Ball, CGCU slave
auction and many other events. Stu-
dents thoroughly enjoyed themselves
(see picture right, for evidence of smi-
ley faces) and raised money for this
year’s charities, Barnardos, Shelter and
The Rainbow Trust.
Last Wednesday proved to be the
busiest day; In the afternoon RAG
RAID was set off with students in
fancy dress and RAG t-shirts journey-
ing across London to complete a list
of tasks and collect money. The RAID
was an astounding success, with one
lucky lady - Lu Lu Meng, amassing
over £200 in her bucket and winning
the best individual collector prize! A
box of Krispy Kreme doughnuts will be
on its way to you shortly.
Every lunch time, with help from
the football club, the Queen’s Tower
was opened for tours which proved to
be very popular; despite having been
on all week the majority of visitors
turned up of Friday, with large queues
and, due to group-size limitations, we
even had to turn people away! Tom
Post wowed visitors with his wealth of
knowledge. Coming up with such clas-
sic facts as: “The top of the Albert Hall,
The Queen’s Tour and the centre of
the Natural History Museum are in a
perfect line North-South.” Who knew?
With this and the great views (see pic-
ture below) it was well worth the £3
to climb the tower. From the top you
can see across Hyde Park, and on a
clear day you’ll see the London eye and
even read the time from Big Ben! If you
haven’t climbed the 324 steps to the
top ICU RAG may put on some more
tours next term- so keep a look out!
Other lunch time events included a
JCR stall with the society Students In
Free Enterprise (SIFE), who were sell-
ing Tanzanian paintings on behalf of
a school in Tanzania. If you liked the
paintings but was too busy to buy at
the time, contact SIFE at Imperial.
Katya-yani Vyas, from the RCSU
committee, helped to organise the
first major RAG event of the week; the
RCSU RAG Ball at Maya in Soho. She
told felix: “Following the success of last
year’s ball we wanted to make sure this
year was just as sensational. With tick-
ets selling out a day in advance, there
was much disappointment amongst
those who had not yet secured their
ticket, and I was inundated with phone
calls, text messages and emails from
students wishing to acquire a ticket on
the day of the event. I apologise if you
were not able to come, but I will shift
the blame onto the ruthless facebook
publicity campaign.
“The event proved to be hugely suc-
cessful, but lets be honest, with 5000
pounds behind the bar, how could it
have gone wrong?
“Maya won ‘Best New Club 2008’
and it was easy to see why; the classy
interior, comfortable seating areas and
intimate atmosphere factored in mak-
ing the ball one to remember. Survey-
ing the dance floor, it was clear that the
sea of sharply dressed young men and
elegantly attired young ladies were en-
joying themselves immensely. The ec-
lectic mixture of chilled out indie/elec-
tro, drum and bass and mainstream
dance music proved to be popular as
we showcased dJ-ing talent from our
very own students, Fabric and Kiss
100.
“Most importantly, a substantial
amount of money was raised for RAG
which was hopefully a good omen for
fund raising throughout the week.”
Wednesday was a manic montage
of fund raising, with RAG RAID, the
CGCU slave auction, and pub crawl.
within 12 hours. RAG-RAIDER Afon-
so Campos told felix: “RAG raid was a
great success, the team I belonged to
raised almost £1000. We did a human
pyramid in front of St. Pauls, ‘bor-
rowed’ lots of things from LSE, raised
money in tube stations- it was great
fun!”
In the evening, Alice Rowlands and
Tom Post auctioned several nervous-
looking slaves with around £1500
raised in total. One of the more valu-
able lots was Mech Eng Senior Tutor,
Dr Crofton, who went for £300 to at-
tend a peace rally at the G20 summit.
Two titans of the student media world,
Live! Editor Kirsty Patterson and felix
editor-in-chief Jovan Nedic, entered
a bidding war that could have ended
with felix being re-branded as Live! for
a week and Live! as felix for the rest
of term. Muttering that the re-brand
would suit felix as it would look like a
cheap tabloid to match the standard of
writing are probably just disgruntled
business school members throwing
their toys out.
At the same time, running battles
with laser guns were being marshalled
in the Union quad and members of the
rugby, hockey and netball clubs toured
the pubs of South Kensington in spiff-
ing golfing attire.
With money still being counted as
felix goes to press, RAG has raised at
least £8000 this year, which is a stir-
ling effort from chair, Jon Downing,
who has a final message of thanks for
all those who helped make RAG week
a success: “I’d like to thank everyone
who gave their time to organise RAG
this year. The committee has been
great!”
Look closely and you’ll see I should have been in lectures when I was at the top of the Queen’s tower!
Jon Downing
& Alice Rowlands
RAG RAID: Woah! Yeah we’re on TV - yeah! We look cool man! Duude!

