comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 27 February 2009 felix
Comment
6 felix Friday 27 February 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
M
y Vespa[1] and I no
longer speak to each
other[2]. We seldom
make eye contact
and I wouldn’t dream
of taking her out with me (her name is
Vesper[3] by the way). We haven’t been
speaking for almost a month now and I
don’t think that our relationship is go-
ing to be repaired any time soon[4].
I feel pretty sad about the whole
situation; everything was rosy un-
til the incident. I felt pretty stylish
whenever Vesper and I hit the streets
of Fulham[5]. I felt like I had truly ‘ar-
rived’. I thought that people would see
me ride past on my orange 49cc (not
50cc, round numbers are definitely not
cool) Italian goddess and think “hey
that guy knows a thing or two about
how to treat a lady”.
But it became painfully clear that I
didn’t know how to treat this lady. It’s
true what they say about women, that
they don’t tell you what’s wrong until
the volcano is ready to blow. I’m still
not sure what I did to sleight Vesper,
maybe she hated my faux-chic helmet
that was labelled “Fashion Helmet”
(and she’d be right to hate it), but she
was never understated, not in her looks
and not in her demeanour; she never
did anything by halves.
That Sunday morning began like
most. My body awoke in bed and my
mind awoke in the shower. I threw
on my Union Bar shirt[6] and a fine
day behind the bar lay ahead of me. I
went downstairs, behind my block of
apartments and said good morning to
Vesper. I gave her ten minutes to get
ready (she doesn’t like to be rushed)
and began my journey up Fulham
Road.
Then the argument began, she start-
ed shouting. Louder and louder. The
engine began to roar uncontrollably
and we sped inexorably towards 90…
(kph, let’s not get carried away, she’s
a 49cc scooter). I reached for the keys
to shut off the engine but in a final act
of malice she gave the front wheel a
twitch, a twist and we both became
intimately acquainted with the hard
tarmac road.
I did the thing that most people do
after an argument; I called my friend.
My housemate Rob[7] left work to
come help me back on my feet (not lit-
erally, again let’s not get carried away,
she’s only a 49cc scooter). Work at the
Union Bar still called and like with all
arguments in public places, Vesper
and I held our emotions in check until
we were both safely home (but much
worse for wear) late that evening. She
had tried to re-ignite the argument on
the way home but I was much quicker
to defuse the situation than the first
time and after a few minutes of deep
breathing at the roadside, crisis was
averted. Of course there were still
those snide comments, every now and
again the engine would cut out while I
was waiting at the lights.
I’m still not entirely sure why Vesper
is angry with me. The couples coun-
sellor told me that we lack the self-
control to build a fruitful relationship;
that in short, the carburettor was
broken[8]. But I worked on it; I fixed
this problem (I should know, I’ve got
the receipt). Still, however, our rela-
tionship refuses to bear fruit. Because
while she tells me that everything is
fine, I still see the malicious glint in
her eye. She gives me clues, like the
left indicator not working, and she
teases me, she gives the front wheel a
shake, laughing mirthlessly as I cling
on for dear life; after ten minutes with
Vesper, I am a shell of my former self,
a jittery bag of nerves.
So we don’t speak any longer, we sel-
dom make eye contact and I wouldn’t
dream of taking Vesper out with me[9].
My patience is wearing away fast and so
too does my love for her. Now I spend
most of my time on the bus; he’s a good
friend, stoic and reliable, if not slightly
irritating at times (oh hell, in truth
I hate the bus but at least I don’t fear
for my life every time I get on it). And
although I tell myself that I don’t need
a woman in my life, that they are just
trouble, my heart disagrees. I recently
met a new girl from Brick Lane. She’s
quite thin and although some people
think she’s just a hipster, I think she’s
pretty cute. Her name is Pixie; she’s a
‘fixie’[10].
Rob tells me that I’m making the
same mistakes again. “She doesn’t have
brakes!”[11] he implores. And I haven’t
told him but she says she’s not going
anywhere with me if I’ve got a helmet
on, apparently it’s not ‘cool’. But hon-
estly? I’m just looking for another rush,
the bus will never satisfy any man after
a moment with Vesper.[12]
Kadhim Shubber and his Vespa are not speaking
“It’s true what
they say about
women, that they
don’t tell you
what’s wrong until
the volcano is
ready to blow”
Gilead Amit discloses an all-consuming addiction
“Most of us
have our first
passionate affair
with a book, and
the experience has
us hooked for life.”
M
y desk, which offers
the largest horizon-
tal working surface
in my quaintly mini-
ature room, is cur-
rently hors combat. The workspace is
threatened by a highly unstable pile
of books, which casts its shadow over
most of the space available in my lit-
tle cubbyhole. I have taken to working
while lying down on my bed, surround-
ed by absorbant cushions to protect me
in the event of a structural collapse.
The reasoning behind this new topo-
graphical element in the landscape of my
cubiculum is simple. I love books. I buy
books. My shelf space is exhausted. Ergo
books pile up on the table. Hardly the
sort of syllogism that would have kept
Socrates up nights. No; he was far too
busy coming to grips with his own mor-
tality–ordrinkingwedlock–orengaged
in some other such Attic nonsense.
The space in my private boudoir
may be limited, but what there is has
been used wisely. Two large bookcases
dominate the South-facing wall – one
stuck in a convenient nook, the other
mountedontopofmydesk.Therebylim-
iting my workspace from the word Go.
These two brave plywood construc-
tions have given as good as they have
got over the past sixmonth, calmly ac-
cepting whatever load was placed on
their weary bolts and tired joints. The
British soil on which they were mass-
produced from trees grown abroad has
doubtless had its effect in producing a
pair of uniquely stoic storage units.
Their resilience has been truly re-
markable, but this last straw has finally
broken their camel-coloured backs.
Space has run out on their ample
shelves, with books piled horizontally
on top of others and all available gaps
crammed with deserving volumes. As a
result, the eleven striking tomes which
are the latest additions to my collec-
tion can fit nowhere other than on the
desk previously described.
This latest mass immigration has
been sparked off by a week spent
scouring the second hand bookstores
of central London. The families of bat-
tered editions clamouring for a better
place to live are hard to turn away.
In truth, I don’t mind. Not only be-
cause at the moment I’m hammering
this out in my departmental common
room, where the lack of desk space is
less evident, but because I couldn’t have
found more charming roommates.
Something about the way second-hand
books are brought up makes them ide-
al bedside companions. It must be all
that time spent in musty, dingy, dusty
and mingy bookstores, watched over
by ardent bibliophiles in sweaters sev-
eral sizes too big and crooked glasses
protecting their light-sensitive retinas.
These stores are my spiritual home.
Places of pilgrimage, of worship and
of relaxation – the additional stop I
am always willing to make no mat-
ter how long the day has been or how
many puddles I have been pushed into.
There is nothing quite so peaceful as to
be surrounded by bookshelves full to
the point of bursting, and to gently run
one’s finger along the spines of a set of
entirely heterogeneous volumes in the
hope of striking gold.
Perhaps not a first edition Guten-
berg or, rarer still, a second edition
Jeffrey Archer, but simpler, more
meaningful treasures. The chance to
broaden one’s horizons is rarely as
great or as unrestrained, and the sight
of two books lying side-by-side that
share neither author, nor topic, nor
language, nor century of publication
leads to wonderful and unexpected
mental associations.
To think that the books packed into
those overpopulated shelves have de-
lighted a thousand owners, known a
thousand cities and been read a thou-
sand times builds a powerful connec-
tion with the rest of humanity. To read
the soft dedications to parents and lov-
ers copperplated onto copyright pages;
to notice the underlining of key pas-
sages or the scrawlings of distracted
students from past decades pulls one
into the maelstrom of the human
reading experience.
Forgive me. To paraphrase Glad-
stone, I have been carried away by the
exuberance of my own pomposity. But
where the written word is concerned,
who can blame me? A book is an ob-
ject of the most intense passion we
can bestow upon inanimate objects.
Our need for knowledge and adven-
ture, our erotic attraction towards the
unknown, and even our love of other
human beings is nowhere else so com-
pactly and attractively packaged.
And while I can sympathize with an
amateur librarian who likes to keep a
collection in pristine condition, the
sight of bent spines and dog-eared
pages sends a shiver of glee down my
own warped backbone as an indication
of a genuine physical relationship with
literature that is in no need of false
modesty or imposed purity.
Most of us have our first affair with
a book, whether in the form of a one-
night stand or a lengthy romance, and
the experience has us hooked for life.
Words, to borrow one of Kipling’s
most powerful lines, are the strong-
est drugs that mankind has ever used.
They are simultaneously more addic-
tive and capable of arousing stronger
emotions; they can be as dangerous
and as soothing; and the variety avail-
able on the streets is certainly as likely
to contain lethal impurities.
Books are the easiest way many of us
are able to get our fix. All we have to
do is find an isolated corner, roll some
paper and let ourselves be transported
to either heaven or hell on the wings
of language, propelled by the engine
of syntax and guided by the rudder of
punctuation. The winds of overblown
metaphor are powerless to hold us
down.
I will continue to satiate my appetite
for words to my heart’s content – and
if this cheap toke fails to satisfy your
cravings, be gentle: I plead guilty of
writing while under the influence.
References
[1] - J.D. Hoppinforth, Italian Icons
That Define The Zeitgeist, Pages 38-
240. Ed 12, 1943.
[2] - James Butterfun, The Big Book of
Awkward Silences, Pages xii - xvii, Pen-
guin, 2010.
[3] - Mawkish and Loveable, The Not
So Big Book of Children’s Names, Page
2, Penguin 2010.
[4] - Nostradamus, Quatrain 12 (for
full prophecy see Chapter 12)
[5] - Residential area of London inhab-
ited by angry middle-aged Lebanese
men (source unverified)
[6] - Hippocampus of Kadhim Shub-
ber, Synapses 3 -7
[7] - He says that’s his name
[8] - Conversation 43, Mechanic and
Kadhim, Collected Conversations:
Shubber and Friends, Random House,
Vol 207
[9] - Paragraph 1 of this piece
[10] - Kadhim’s Wishlist, Item 42
[11] - Conversation 56, Rob and Ka-
dhim, Collected Conversations: Shub-
ber and Friends, Random House, Vol
49
[12] - Referencing is tedious...
Afonso Campos enjoys being around ‘knowitalls’
Y
ou’re so bored you’ve no-
ticed the dusty air settling
on other people’s heads
as it passes through the
incoming sunlight. An
undoubtedly talented man is speak-
ing of the failings of pyrosequencing
in today’s industry, but you’re simply
impermeable to all his wisdom he is
giving away for free (well, part of the
£3000 you’re paying..). The knowledge
he exudes just waits amongst the dusty
air, swirling around, enticing an oppor-
tune moment for your brain to switch
back on and soak it up.
Your mind switches to what you’re
going to do once you step free of this
dusty but apparently beneficial experi-
ence. Since I’m far too lazy to make my
own sandwiches at home, or even to
have breakfast before I leave the house
(which to be honest, is disgraceful), my
mind seems only to wander onto the
Dan Wan picks a bone with Captain Questions
“Sometimes, I
enjoy the odd
question, I see it as
chance to do a bit
of ‘extra reading’
without having to
open my eyes”
glorious want of food. Clearly I’m not
the only one either, because College
Chicken and Bacon baguettes are al-
ways in rare supply even minutes after
an 11am lecture finishes.
As your stomach moans at you
for sacrificing breakfast for an extra
10 minutes sleep that morning, you
wonder how quickly this lecture will
be over. However, there’s always one
person standing between you and the
wonderful taste of chicken, mayon-
naise and bacon between an oddly half-
baked baguette; Captain Questions.
Captain Questions, as you may have
already guessed, loves to ask questions.
He, or she, must ask at least one ques-
tion per slide despite the collective tut-
ting that occurs every time their piggy
little voice sounds. Of course, most
lecturers are delighted to be asked
questions. They spew out the same set
of lectures almost mechanically each
year and welcome the insight Captain
Questions brings to their day. You can’t
blame them for spending five min-
utes talking avidly about the research
they’re involved in to answer Captain’s
questions. If someone asked me about
writing for Felix, I’d probably do just
about the same. I can’t speak for them,
but I assume they also feel obliged
to answer Captain comprehensively.
However, these five minutes are still
five minutes further towards my stom-
ach shrivelling into a useless but very
painful ball of organ.
You probably think I’m one of those
waste students that sit at the back of the
lecture theatre and just sleep or play
mental charades with my other per-
sonality. I’m not. I ask questions too;
mainly because my brain doesn’t func-
tion brilliantly without these chicken
and bacon baguettes and hence don’t
understand most concepts laid down
in front of me. I even enjoy the odd
insightful question, I sometimes see it
as chance to do a bit of ‘extra reading’
without having to open my eyes.
The reason I have such a disdain for
all those Captain Questions out there,
is that each of your questions are care-
fully constructed to contain 1) the fact
you already know a lot more about the
topic than is being currently discussed
and 2) an ‘insightful’ question that you
probably won’t listen to because you’re
too pleased with yourself that you’re
able to do 1).
Another graph pops up on the pro-
jector. The lecturer has just about
pointed out the axes, when trusty ol’
Captain speaks up again. Another five
minutes of self-gratifying attention
from the lecturer, and we finally move
onto the next slide.
It eventually gets to the point where
you’re preparing your own noose from
a collection of scrap paper and shoe
string. You’re just looking towards the
ceiling to see if you can spot any solid
hooks to tie to, and just in time, you’re
saved by the mass shuffling of paper
into bags as the lecturer duly apolo-
gies for not covering all the slides and
running over the allocated 50 min-
utes. As I unravel the makeshift noose
in order to put my shoes back on, I’m
in two minds. One induces a sense of
injustice; why should the lecturer be
apologising for overrunning and not
covering all relevant material? We’re
the ones that will suffer when we don’t
have any notes for the last 20 slides
when it comes to revision. It’s all due
to the minutes of pointless off-topic
questioning. The other thing on my
mind is that of potential creamy, salty
and meaty semi-delights.
Sadly enough, guess which mindset I
act upon?
I
am a true believer that while
learning is an interesting experi-
ment in itself, it really is mostly
about realising what it is that
you do not know, and hence de-
riving the utmost pleasure from arriv-
ing at the concept that no matter how
much one does, there is always some-
thing new to learn. I find it absolutely
fascinating that as human beings, we
will never be able to capture and ab-
sorb the essence of what it is to belong
to our species for that would entail a
comprehensive knowledge, and most
importantly understanding, of well...
pretty much everything.
While learning about a given sub-
ject adds beauty and objectivity to any
argument, it is even more beautiful
knowing that, most likely, someone
will know more about it than you. In-
stead of seeing this as a threatening
characteristic in any one person, it
seems to be much more enthralling
to learn from this person. Even if you
don’t necessarily agree with whatever
is being said, there is always scope to
learn something, even if it is learning
that you have learnt very little at all.
Constant questioning for the sake
of questioning might seem, and often-
times is, pedantic. When done right
and for the right reasons however, it
should almost inevitably lead to a little
bit of self-evolution and increased self-
knowledge. It is certainly a strange idea
to think that we can evolve within our
life times. The fact that we are seem-
ingly stuck in a physically unevolving
species is an almost universally accept-
ed idea. It isn’t that we are literally not
evolving as human beings, but discern-
ing any real changes caused by evolu-
tion in our short life spans is close to
impossible as we are certainly not mu-
tating rapidly enough. Bar convoluted,
complicated and potentially danger-
ous genetic enhancements (or merely
changes), there is very little we can
actually do on this Earth to feel even
the thinnest and most modest sliver of
evolution within ourselves.
A way we can taste a little bit of the
nectar is to think about evolution in
such a way that from now on it includes
the evolution of personal and collected
knowledge as an integral constituent of
this abstract concept. If we think about
evolution in such a manner, every
time any event, conversation or situa-
tion leads to thinking differently about
something, we have somehow evolved.
Interesting conversations usually have
two possible outcomes. The first is that
nothing really changes within you and
this is by far and large the most com-
mon scenario. Even though the con-
versation might have been interesting
it need not have been enriching in any
way shape or form.
Sometimes though, there is one of
those perfect moments where every-
thing you hear makes sense, but goes
against something you supposedly
unequivocally believed in. You begin
to question life-long conventional wis-
doms and begin considering not think-
ing of them as benchmark ideas or
personal thoughts. Something strange
has happened. Something quite magic
and potentially life-altering. You have
changed your mind. This is the ulti-
mate form of any sort of evolution we
can almost literally feel.
My mind is neither weak nor feeble
nor prone to indoctrinations of most
sorts. I also don’t change my mind as
often as might potentially be inferred
from this comment piece, but truth be
told, I find very few things in life that
are satisfying as changing my mind
following a long, conversation with a
friend whom I respect. It’s not neces-
sarily that I like being proved wrong or
have some sort of self-confidence is-
sue that prompts me to take the view
of whoever I am talking to. It is merely
that I love the fact that I can, and if
there is a compelling enough reason for
me to do so, I will change my mind.
Anagnorisis is more a process of self-
improvement through time rather than
one of instant gratification and it genu-
inely makes me happy that as human
beings we are capable of feeling it.
“Anagnorisis
isn’t sudden; it’s
a process of self-
improvement
through time”

