science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 27 February 2009 felix
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 27 February 2009
Science
Science Editors – Mićo Tatalović and Daniel Burrows
Demand and supply are the shaping
forces in determining prices in human
markets. Some biologists propose that
similar forces play a role in animal be-
haviour, especially in the distribution of
payoff s between trading animals. Ani-
mal interactions such as sexual selec-
tion, within-species cooperation and
between species mutualism can all be
seen as a trade between two classes of
traders. For example, males may offer
females nuptial gifts in exchange for
copulations; territorial animals may
allow subordinates to share their ter-
ritory in exchange for help in raising
the territorial animal’s off spring; and
aphids exchange sugary substance for
protection by ants. The exchange rate
for traded goods isn’t fixed in these
examples: for example, aphids may
secrete more sugary substance when
the number of ants tending them is
smaller, so the exchange rates correlate
to the availability of certain commodi-
ties. The fewer ants there are the more
they get paid for their services. Another
striking example of a biological market
is a marine cleaning station – a place
on the coral reef where fish or shrimp,
known as cleaners, live by eating para-
sites off their ‘clients’. Cleaning stations
manifest many of the features of a mar-
ketplace: goods on off er are advertised;
US Cosmetology bans
cleaner fish
clients are chosen in order to maximise
profits; there is competition over the
members of the rare class by the com-
mon class members; and supply and
demand of commodities determine
their relative value.
Cleaners advertise their availability
to clients by positioning themselves on
a visible place at the station (usually a
coral head). Good advertising is essen-
tial for attracting customers and clean-
ers advertise brilliantly: one can easily
locate a cleaner at long distances when
snorkelling/diving. Their bright col-
ours contrast with the pale background
of the cleaning station (for example,
yellow brain corals) and they usually
have a horizontal stripe that also at-
tracts clients. In a business interaction
communication is an essential tool for
successful transactions. The communi-
cation between cleaners and clients has
been evolving for a long time and con-
sists of various components. I already
mentioned colour signals that inform
clients of cleaner’s location and avail-
ability. Behavioural communication
is another component of the graceful
choreography of cleaning interactions.
Clients that visit the stations signal
their willingness to indulge in cleaning
by assuming trance-like states. They
hover on their head or tail until the
cleaner inspects them. These inspec-
tion bouts last from several seconds
to a few minutes, during which the
cleaner may remove ectoparasites from
the client’s body surface, sometimes ac-
companied by the client giving a sud-
den jolt. These may indicate instances
of the cleaner biting the client’s tissues
rather than removing the ectoparasites.
Similar body jerks by clients signal to
the cleaner that they are about to leave
the station, so if a cleaner is inside their
mouth it has time to safely exit before
the client swims off. Clients have no in-
tention of eating a good cleaner. Clean-
ers, for their part, communicate their
beneficial intention by dancing move-
ments prior to and during the inspec-
tion, and they may also provide tactile
stimulation of the client with their fins.
Cleaning symbioses have been
viewed as mutualistic selfless coopera-
tion (a good one for Creationists), as
an example of reciprocal altruism (I’ll
scratch your back if you scratch mine)
and more recently as behavioural para-
sitism (this supposes that cleaners are
parasites who exploit clients by eat-
ing their body surfaces whilst keep-
ing them under tactile hypnosis). Th
e most recent theoretical background
to understanding cleaning symbioses
has been the biological market theory,
where goods are seen as being ex-
changed between the cleaner and the
client. In light of this theory cleaning
inter- actions provide an opportunity
for both cleaners and clients to cheat.
Cleaners can cheat by ingesting mucus
and taking bites out of the client, which
is damaging to the client’s health and
fitness; while the client can cheat, if
it is a piscivore, by eating the cleaner.
Clients can also punish cleaners for not
cooperating by chasing them, which
can be energetically costly for both
parties. Imagine having to chase your
hairdresser after they cut your ear: it is
beneficial for both you and them not to
have to resort to that kind of scenario.
Similarly, cleaners generally don’t make
their clients angry. Cleaners may even
apply pre-conflict management strate-
gies to avoid being eaten.
Although the piscivorous clients may
eat the cleaners they generally do not
do so. This fact has been exploited by
some other fish species that can mimic
cleaner fish species in order to avoid
being eaten by piscivores, while ex-
ploiting them as a food source (eating
their mucus and fins). Using a similar
strategy, some human companies ex-
ploit designer labels or brands by mak-
ing fake products and labels to fool the
unwary customer into purchasing these
instead of the ‘real thing’. This imitation
devalues the original product, just as
the cleaner’s ‘reputation’ is damaged
in the eyes of the fooled client, who
gets a bite instead of a cleaning and
touching session. An interesting pos-
sibility is that cleaner species that are
mimicked by other fish species may
be eaten more often than cleaner spe-
cies that are mimic-free. There is more
selection pressure on clients not to eat
mimic-free cleaners than there is to eat
the mimicked species since in the latter
case sometime they will eat the actual
mimic and that would increase the cli-
ent’s fitness, rather than decrease it.
Since clients are more numerous
than cleaners there are often queues in
front of the cleaning station. Larger and
stronger fish attempt to chase the oth-
ers away, but the cleaner has the final
say in who gets inspected, and when.
An interesting question that is still un-
answered is what determines how at-
tractive the client is to the cleaner. One
reason might be that cleaners recognize
clients’ parasite load and choose those
that are most infected. But if cleaners
cheat on clients by eating their mu-
cus then they may well prefer to clean
those whose mucus is most nutritious.
In a sense such clients get ripped off as
they have to ‘pay extra’ to get cleaned if
the cleaners are also stripping them of
their mucus. Although mucus has been
found in cleaners’ stomachs it may well
be that it was ingested accidentally
along with the parasites that were the
primary target for the cleaners.
Cleaners have been shown to be able
to recognize familiar clients; more spe-
cifically, they can distinguish clients
that have access to only one cleaning
station from those that have access to
several. Cleaner fish will inspect and
clean those clients that have the option
of visiting several cleaning stations (the
‘floaters’) rather than clients that only
have access to one (the ‘residents’).
The rationale be- hind this is obvious:
clients that can visit other cleaning sta-
tions will do so if they are not satisfied
with the service provided at the current
station, whilst those that can- not visit
other stations are restricted to their ha-
bitual station regardless of the quality of
the service. The cleaners actually spend
more time with the ‘choosy’ clients and
perhaps even cheat them less; in any
case, choosy clients wait less time to be
inspected by the cleaner when there is
a queue for the cleaner’s services – it is
almost as if they have a VIP pass to the
cleaning stations. Interestingly, clients
have been shown to remember which
cleaning stations have provided them
with a quick and effective service and
to return preferentially to them, while
they avoid the stations where they
had to wait for a long time, were not
given enough attention, or where they
had been cheated previously. In effect,
there is pressure on cleaners to provide
better service to choosy clients so that
they return to their station – a good
business with lots of clients is a matter
of life or death for cleaner fish.
Furthermore, cleaners seem to be
able to recognize piscivorous clients
as well as their satiation level. When
cleaner fish approach their client they
exhibit a dancing motion, and also
sometimes touch them. The dance
informs the client that the cleaner is
about to inspect it. (This dancing swim
resembles the flying motion of some
birds performing to attract males: it is
interesting to see how a similar behav-
ioural signal evolved in the sea and in
the air for two different purposes.) The
hungry piscivorous clients are touched
more often than the herbivores. The
explanation for this may be that clean-
ers are using a ‘risk management strat-
egy’ whereby they remind the hungry
clients that they are cleaning them
“The dance
informs the
client that the
cleaner is about
to inspect it.”
Mićo Tatalović
Science Editor
Simple designs that re-use sink, shower and bath water to flush the toilet could save gallons of water and
cut down our water bills.
No more “If it’s yellow, let it mellow”! Meet the
Grey Water Toilet System design
Finally designers and engineers are
asking the same question I was asking
when I was 10 or so. Why on Earth do
we use fresh, drinking water to flush
our toilets at a time when water short-
ages and pollution are on a constant
rise?
Alison Norcott, a student designer
from Swinburne University of Tech-
nology, entered her “The Grey Water
Toilet System” design into this year’s
Australian Design Award competi-
tion, and many eco blogs picked up on
it, mainly commending such a system.
She explains how the system works:
“The Grey Water Toilet System, de-
signed specifically for apartment
buildings, helps conserve water by us-
ing shower water for flushing. The wa-
ter is collected from the shower drain
and pumped into an in-wall tank. To
avoid bacteria growth, the tank is dis-
charged on a cyclic basis so that wa-
ter isn’t stored for over twenty four
hours.”
She goes on to explain, “The sys-
tem has been specifically designed to
fit within the wall cavity of an apart-
ment building. There are currently no
real solutions for apartments regard-
ing grey water systems, all cater to the
household market. Efficiency of the
system and space minimisation have
been key considerations during the
design process.”
And the benefits of such a novel
design are that “This system will save
hundreds of litres of fresh drinking
water per person per week. There is
no need to waste such a precious re-
source on an application like toilet
flushing.” Now if only we could get
Imperial to install this in all the stu-
dent accommodation...
Unfortunately, this design didn’t
make it to the shortlist for 2009
Awards. Nevertheless, similar com-
mercial systems already exist and
perhaps this design will raise people’s
awareness of such an easy way to cut
down on water wastage. One such
system is the US based Aqus, “a small
scale greywater recycling system that
uses treated water that is captured
from the bathroom sink to flush the
toilet – and accomplish greywater re-
cycling in the process.” They estimate
savings of up to 6000 gallons of water
and $30 a year per household.
Another such system is Canadian
Brac’s Greywatre Recycling System.
They say “Brac systems can help you
save 35% to 40% on your annual water
bill, and while saving money, you will
also help save the environment and
provide a better future for our children
and their children to come. With this
amount of savings, your Brac Greywa-
ter Recycling System pays itself.” So
there are no more excuses for flushing
toilets with drinking water.
and that it is not worth eating them. It
looks as if cleaners provide dangerous
clients with an especially good service,
including more pleasure – imagine get-
ting a massage with your car-wash just
because you have a gun. The pleasure
that fish get out of tactile stimulation
during an inspection by the cleaner has
been offered as an explanation as to
why clients come to cleaning stations
in the first place. This is supported by
observations of some clients posing
in sea plumes, types of feathery soft
coral, even when there are no cleaning
stations around – these fish seem to
be motivated by the enjoyment of the
sensation itself rather than the cleaning
benefits of having their parasites re-
moved. However, there is also evidence
that suggests that clients carrying more
parasites seek cleaners sooner; this
would imply that they visit cleaning
stations primarily due to the irritation
they receive from increased parasite
loads.
The exact importance of cleaning sta-
tions to the ecological systems in which
they are found is still unknown. Some
Cosmetology boards in several US
states, including Florida, have banned
use of fish in spas and cosmetic salons.
The tiny fish, originally found in Tur-
key, are popular in Asia. The fish nib-
ble on dead skin and provide custom-
ers with hydromassage that is thought
to be beneficial for psychological dis-
orders and various skin diseases, most
notably psoriasis.
The ban comes before the fish treat-
ment is even available in these states.
Boards have highlighted the fact that it
is difficult to disinfect pools with live
Can fish teach us economics?
experiments that have removed clean-
ing stations from a reef have reported
emigration of other fish species and
higher infection rates of the few spe-
cies that have stayed, but others have
reported no change in fish biodiversity
or health. So the effects of cleaning sta-
tions on fish biodiversity are still not
fully understood, but there is a possibil-
ity that they play an important role in
keeping reef fish populations healthy.
The fact that cleaning symbioses have
evolved convergently several times sug-
gests their importance to the ecosys-
tems. Convergent evolution is when the
same adaptations to similar habitats or
situations have evolved independently
in more than one type of organism. A
common example of this is the similar
aerodynamic shape of the shark (a fish),
dolphin (a mammal) and penguin (a
bird), which is thought to have evolved
in response to their shared marine life-
style. In any case, although we do not
know the exact importance of marine
cleaning stations to the fish biodiversity
and health of coral reef communities,
the benefits of cleaners to farmed fish
have been demonstrated and so an un-
derstanding of cleaner-client interac-
tions have both theoretical and practi-
cal (economical/aqua-cultural) value.
So next time you go to the market
place, perhaps the farmer’s market on
Bute Street or Borough Market and
you attempt to get the best price for the
goods you purchase, think about the
fascinating power of evolution that has
resulted in biological markets where
the service-providers and clients ex-
change goods by the same rules we do,
except that they implement these rules
without the need for rational thought.
Our free economy has reached similar
solutions to those reached by natu-
ral selection. This further illustrates
why Darwin was influenced by Adam
Smith’s laissez-faire approach to econ-
omy. This raises some interesting ques-
tions: how many features of human
society are shaped by natural selection
and our basic animal nature? And how
many problematic aspects of our soci-
ety could be solved by examining the
way natural selection has solved similar
problems in nature?
“They have
a VIP pass to
the cleaning
stations.”
Mićo Tatalović
Science Editor
Mićo Tatalović
Science Editor
fish in them. Use of pets and animals
for cosmetic purposes is also not al-
lowed in the US.
Other mention ethical issues: these
fish do not naturally feed on human
skin, they have to be starved to de-
velop liking for humans as a food
source.
These ‘doctor fish’ or ‘little dermatol-
ogists’ come from two species Garra
rufa and Cyprinion macrostomus. They
are both used in spas in many coun-
tries, including some of the US states.
“This is a good treatment for everyone
who likes to have nice feet,” John Ho.
an owner of one such salon told CBC
News last year.
It is interesting that humans visit
these fish ‘cleaning stations’ for the
same reasons as wild fish: for both
pleasure and hygiene.
Marine cleaning stations exist in
most oceans around the world where
various species of cleaner fish and
shrimp advertise their services and
clean a variety of fish and even sea
turtles.
Many of the biological features of
these cleaning stations resemble hu-
man economic exchanges, the sort
that take place at trading places such
as car wash stations and markets.
Occasionally, there is even a credit
crunch...
IC Radio’s weekly science
show Ear on Science is looking
for scientists and PhD
students to talk about their
research. If you would like
to explain your research on
radio waves please drop us
an e-mail: mico.tatalovic08@
imperial.ac.uk or annabel.
slater08@imperial.ac.uk

