politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 27 February 2009
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 27 February 2009 felix
Politics
G
ood day, dear readers, it
has been a substantial
amount of time since I
offered a column to the
Politics page and for
that, I apologise. I will assign part of
the blame for this to a sheer lack of
time but also in a small amount to the
anticipation of seeing who my fellow
editor, Mr Goldsack, wished to aggra-
vate each week.
In any case, I have shaken off the
dust and will now attempt to reassume
some kind of column-like rambling. So
this week has been a turbulent one in
terms of politics. We have found our-
selves questioning the conduct of some
politicians and offering heartfelt con-
dolences to others.
A week in which Labour peer Lord
Ahmed was sentenced to 12 weeks in
prison after texting whilst driving on
the M1 led to a collision that proved to
be fatal for some of those involved.
A week when UK opposition leader
David Cameron’s son died in hospi-
tal aged six having suffered his entire,
extremely-short life from cerebral
palsy and epilepsy. Now, I am no Con-
servative but no parent should have to
endure the loss of their child, so I will
place to the side any hostility I have
towards Cameron and wish him the
utmost sympathies during this difficult
time.
AsforLordAhmed,perhaps12weeks
in prison will allow him time to gain
some perspective and, I would hope,
teach him a damned good lesson.
Sri Lanka; a beautiful island off the
south coast of India, home to white
sandy beaches, amazing wildlife and a
rich heritage. But over the past twenty-
five years, this serene landscape has
been tarnished by a bloody war.
Before colonisation, the island’s dif-
ferent communities co-existed peace-
fully, living in separate Kingdoms,
enjoying parity of status albeit un-
der different rulers. However, dur-
ing 1517-1948 (The Colonial Era) the
country was invaded on separate oc-
casions by the Portuguese, Dutch and
finally the British, who unified the
Kingdoms for ease of administration.
On the 4th February 1948, Sri Lanka
(then Ceylon) gained independence
from the British who left the country
with a unitary constitution which was
subsequently amended by the Sinhala
majority – this was to be the start of
over half a century of political tension.
The political shift from a mixed
Tamil and Sinhala government to sole-
ly Sinhala produced the general feel-
ing of unbridled-dominance amongst
the minority Tamils. The introduction
of various laws such as the ‘District
Quota System 1972’, ‘Policy of Stand-
ardisation 1973’ and the ‘Sinhala Only
Act’ saw the Tamils having to achieve
significantly higher points in order to
enter university in comparison to their
Sinhala counterparts and being refused
government jobs if they lacked fluency
of the Sinhala dialect; reaffirming their
feelings of oppression.
This saw the formation of the Tamil
United Liberation Front (TULF) who,
with the support of the National Tamil
minority and the International Diaspo-
ra, contested the Parliamentary elec-
tions of 1977 with a clear manifesto for
Tamil Nationhood, winning vital seats
in the North and East of Sri Lanka.
In 1981 the Jaffna Public Library,
which housed over ninety-seven thou-
sand volumes of Tamil literature, in-
cluding irreplaceable ancient palm
leaf manuscripts, was set ablaze by the
Sri Lankan police destroying all the
original evidence of Tamil heritage in
the Island. Many Tamils felt this was
a consequence of their political suc-
cesses in the North-East and this es-
sentially fuelled growing hostility.
A series of protests and riots broke
out articulating the feelings of oppres-
sion and discrimination against the
minority population. The vision of
‘Tamil Eelam’ was born: the dream of
the Tamil Nationals and Diaspora to
have a self-run state on the Island – ul-
timately, the hope of autonomy.
Over the past thirty-five years vari-
ous organisations emerged to voice
the general opinion of oppression and
conflicts broke out over the welfare of
the Tamil people. Some took passive
political stances, whilst others took
up an armed struggle having felt that
their initial efforts were in vain. The
most prominent conflict to start was
the war waged between one of these
organisations, now known as the LTTE
(Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam) and
the government.
Since the start of the war, seventy-
five thousand people have been killed
by indiscriminate shelling. Both sides
have been accused of severe human
rights violations by independent par-
ties and the International Red Cross.
However, the total ban on external me-
dia sources and International peace-
keeping processes by the government
has meant that there are no details of
the humanitarian atrocities. Further to
this, wide scale demonstrations across
the globe, such as the one-hundred-
thousand strong march that occurred
in London Westminister on 31st Janu-
ary 2009 outlining the carnage in Sri
Lanka, have received significant media
containment due to political pressures:
the voice of the Tamil people has ‘inad-
vertently’ been silenced.
Sri Lankan forces stand guard in the recaptured town of Mullaittivu
Katya-yani Vyas
Politics Editor
Righto, now that I have dedicated half
of this column to a sort of pseudo-rant,
I will proceed to deal with the ‘Most
Popular Man in the World’ and his un-
fortunate counterpart on this side of
the Pond. Of course I am referring to
Barack Obama and Gordon Brown.
Brown would do well to take some
inspiration from Obama’s popularity,
and possibly attempt to re-create it in
this country, a steep hill to climb in-
deed but possibly not an insurmount-
able one.
Tony Blair’s reign was tarnished by
his relationship with a certain Ameri-
can President, an indication that diplo-
macy with the US is a major factor in
determining the mood of the British
public. So, perhaps Brown could allow
the same rule to give a vitality boost to
his tenure.
A ‘special partnership’ between Brit-
ain and America could see an end to
the anomaly of global financial insti-
tutions being regulated locally, or the
introduction of the Tobin tax which
would set aside a small percentage of
every foreign transaction, helping to
achieve Brown’s long-standing dream
of providing education for every child.
Brown must be wary though. The
Blair-Bush bridge broke spectacularly
under the strain of public opinion. He
must ensure cooperation from the rest
of Europe to strengthen the links this
time.
No one will remember Brown’s days
as the Iron Chancellor, he will forever
be our Paper Prime Minister.
It has been a
while...
Sri Lankan struggle
Over the past few weeks the war has
escalated severely, and whilst the gov-
ernment claim to be achieving success
over the LTTE, over one-thousand
Tamil civilians have been killed within
the space of three weeks by indiscrimi-
nate shelling of schools, hospitals and
various other institutions in a govern-
ment allocated ‘safe zone’ in North-
East Sri Lanka. Meanwhile a further
two-hundred-and-fifty thousand ci-
vilians are trapped in areas of conflict
within arms reach of artillery fire, with
minimal humanitarian aid and little
hope of escaping safely.
The case of the government and the
LTTE is the centre of much contro-
versy; and it seems that today’s society
is comfortable using this as an excuse
to turn a blind eye to the tragedies of
this humanitarian crisis. It would seem
ethically fundamental that it is a com-
mon agenda to every individual to see
that all human beings have the right to
live with dignity, autonomy and free-
dom from the fear of death.
As students we are a force; we have a
societal stand and the power to make
a difference. Please help us do so by
showing your support.
“Peace can only last where human
rights are respected, where the people
are fed, and where individuals and na-
tions are free.” The Dalai Lama.
Cabinet cover-up?
Justice Secretary Jack Straw announced
that he would use a clause in the Free-
dom of Information Act to block the
publication of minutes of key Cabinet
meetings held in the run-up to the Iraq
war in 2003, those in which the war’s
legality was discussed.
Releasing the papers would do “se-
rious damage” to Cabinet govern-
ment according to Straw and this
outweighed the public interest issues.
This disregards the ruling by the Infor-
mation Tribunal last month that they
should be published.
They had rejected a government
appeal against the Information Com-
missioner’s ruling that the papers
be published because the decisions
taken regarding the invasion of Iraq
were “momentous” and controversial.
The government could have appealed
against this decision in the High Court
but has decided instead to use the min-
isterial veto for the first time. Propo-
nents of the Freedom of Information
Act see this as evidence that the gov-
ernment has no legal basis for stopping
publication.
“There is a balance to be struck be-
tween openness and maintaining as-
pects of our structure of democratic
government,” Jack Straw said. “The
damage that disclosure of the minutes
in this instance would do, far outweighs
any corresponding public interest in
their disclosure.”
The Conservatives backed this de-
cision, since the release of minutes
would make ministers more reluctant
to discuss controversial subjects in
future, impeding good governance.
However, Shadow Justice Secretary
Dominic Grieve said that the way the
government has handled the issue
showed contempt for the Freedom of
Information Legislation.
The Liberal Democrat justice spokes-
man, David Howarth, said the decision
was “more to do with preventing em-
barrassment than protecting the sys-
tem of government”. He said it was in
the public’s interest to know that the
Cabinet, as a decision-making body,
had “collapsed” in the run-up to war
and been manipulated and replaced by
a select number of individuals around
the then-Prime Minister, Tony Blair.
The release of the Cabinet minutes
would reopen controversy over then-
Attorney General Lord Goldsmith’s
advice on the war. His advice to Tony
Blair given on 7th March raised ques-
tions about the legality of military ac-
tion without a second UN resolution
and was not shown to the Cabinet.
Richard Thomas, who backed pub-
lication on interest grounds, said the
exercise of a veto over standard FOI
procedures must be “exceptional”. Sri Lankan police investigate the explosion site of a suspected Tamil suicide bomber in Vavuniya
Nishanth Sivarasan
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
Edward Townes
For the good of humanity, drugs must be legal
The War on Drugs, and the illegality of
drugs in general, is arguably the cause
of the most senseless waste of human
life and resources in the history of
mankind. In the United States alone,
$50 billion dollars is spent each year
on attempting to disrupt the drug mar-
ket, equal to the combined budgets for
the country’s agriculture, energy, and
veteran’s programs. This does not take
into account billions more in dam-
ages to private citizens and millions of
lives around the world destroyed every
year.
America’s prison population of 2.3
million, where one third are drug-re-
lated convictions, costs a further $60
billion per year and has earned the
“leader of the free world” the dubious
honour of holding more inmates than
the rest of the world combined, along
with the greatest incarceration rate of
any major country, ever.
Despite this tremendous cost, drug
consumption in the US has reliably
increased throughout the prohibition.
The War on Drugs is a catastrophic
failure from any perspective, but I wish
to argue that even an effective war is
unjustified and evil, even harming
those most in need of help.
The central problem with calling
the production, distribution, and con-
sumption of a substance a crime is
that there are no involuntary parties to
these activities. When someone grows
pot on their land, they are not harm-
ing anyone else; no victims have come
forward as plaintiffs.
When drug dealer and user make a
voluntary exchange between them-
selves, they are not harming anyone
else. This means that the government
has created a new category of victim-
less (i.e, political) crime. Laws that
define victimless deeds as criminal
should not exist. Period.
Every law that does is a transgression
against liberty. Nothing damages the
respect the public has for their govern-
ment than the creation of laws that it
cannot possibly enforce effectively.
In addition, there are important
consequences from making drugs il-
legal that affect both crime and public
health.
A frequent justification for mak-
ing drugs illegal is that it is better for
public health. The reality is the exact
opposite. First of all, there is no empiri-
cal evidence that making drugs illegal
leads to any decrease in consumption.
In fact, there is evidence to the con-
trary. In countries with more liberal
drug laws, the consumption of drugs
is generally lower, by a large margin,
than countries with more authoritar-
ian drug laws.
Similarly, there is no data to support
the claim that consumption of softer
drugs necessarily leads to harder drugs.
Dubai has received criticism from its people and from international organisations for the Atlantis hotel, the
latest in a string of lavish projects
Indeed scientists have proven with rats
that this relationship simply does not
exist on a chemical level.
Secondly, making substances illegal
harms quality accountability in the
market. This means that a large por-
tion of the drugs consumed have been
cut with other substances that are
considerably worse for the health of
the consumer than the drug itself, and
create uncertainty in the potency of a
given dosage, leading to overdoses.
Finally, using the health of the con-
sumers as a justification for prohibit-
ing their voluntary activity amounts to
the government assuming it has a role
in protecting us from ourselves. This
logic, when taken to its full implica-
tions, is clearly tyrannical.
Most people already understand that
when you make a market illegal, many
are newly defined as criminals who
otherwise do not break the law. They
can also understand that the major-
ity of the revenues of the drug market
make it into the hands of murderous
drug lords.
What most people do not appreci-
ate is the vast amount of derivative
crime created when you make a mar-
ket black. When you declare a market
illegal you deny all the actors in that
market redress of grievances through
the court and justice system. This leads
the participants in the illegal market
to find other means to sort out their
differences, which invariably leads to
violence.
For example, if I agree to buy a kilo-
gram of cocaine from a business as-
sociate, and then decide to screw him
over and not pay up on delivery, can he
go to the police and have me arrested
for theft/fraud? No. His only option
is to attempt to recover his damages
himself by force. How many gang wars
have you heard about over who gets
control of streets to distribute alcohol?
Last time that happened, surprise sur-
prise, was the alcohol prohibition in
the 1920’s.
Alcohol is, in fact, an excellent case
study in understanding the conse-
quences of prohibiting drugs, and
any time that you want to see how
the drug market would manifest if it
was not illegal, the alcohol market is a
good place to look. Do we have mili-
tias guarding fields of barley? No. Do
we have frictional relationships with
countries that export alcohol? No.
Do we have governments around the
world secretly profiting from the al-
cohol market to the detriment of their
people? No. Do we have kids travelling
around the world with vials of alcohol
in their rectums? No. Do thousands
and thousands of people die every year
attempting to transport and distribute
alcohol? No. Do alcohol addicts look-
ing for their next drink commit most
of the burglaries? No. The list goes on
and on.
The fact of the matter is, making
drugs illegal is not only a complete and
utter failure that creates massive harm
for humanity, but the justifications
for even attempting it are flawed and
totalitarian.
The world would be a vastly better
place if governments left people who
want to consume a substance of their
own choice in peace.
“A frequent
justification for
making drugs
illegal is that
it is better for
public health.
The reality is the
exact opposite”
“Making drugs
illegal is a
complete failure”

