14 felix Friday 27 February 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 27 February 2009 felix
Arts
Turning Valentine’s day on its head
The Soho Theatre’s This Isn’t Romance explores incestuous love in terms of sex, money and violence: not
your standard Valentine’s fare. Benjo Fraser is amused and also perplexed.
W
hat impresses most
about this play is
its boldness. Miso
Blake, orphaned at
the age of seven,
penniless, abandoned her four year-old
brother Han and left Korea. She grew
up in England, became middle-class;
whilst Han struggled to survive and fell
into destitution. When Miso goes back
to find him, her guilt, his hatred, and
their mutual disgust at their own lives
are played out in unforgiving fashion.
Ubiquitous here are extremes and
intensity of emotion. The two fall in
love. The incestuous nature of this is
perhaps meant to play a key role (“I am
you. You’re the marrow in my bones,
you’re in my genes, in my body.”) but
far more prominent is the pain and
guilt of separation destroying the two.
Lives full of destruction are difficult
to repair. The scenes between Jennifer
Lim (Miso) and Mo Zainal (Han) over-
whelm us with sexuality and longing,
and it is powerful when they fall asleep
in each other’s arms. How disturbing
you find this may depend on your sib-
ling count. For me, it was a beautiful
and simple moment, which typifies the
places of clarity, which the piece is of-
ten able to draw from its frantic bulk.
BythisImeanthefactthatsex,money
and violence are in every scene. Unable
to cope with her emotions for Han, and
needing money for him, Miso attempts
to destroy herself. She sells her body
to Jack Cash, a wealthy English hotel-
ier. While sleazy, and morally dubious
(with a wife and children at home), he
is refreshingly honest about his desires
for her. In portraying this in the con-
text of the brother-sister relationship,
the writer (In-Sook Chappell) is per-
haps inviting us to evaluate our views
on the morality of sexuality and mon-
ey. But the piece often comes across as
unnecessarily nihilistic, in the face of
a basically happy situation. In the end,
many of Miso’s actions must be down
to some tragic flaw, rather than due to
circumstance if we are to make sense
of the play as a whole, and actually to
prevent the play descending into the
ridiculous. Because I think this play,
looked at from different angles, pos-
sibly even viewed on different nights,
is both tragedy and farce. It is difficult
to get a grip on, which all rests on how
well integrated and relevant one finds
the subsidiary themes of modern mon-
ey and sex – so brashly are they pre-
sented, they begin to feel superfluous
by the end.
The dialogue is good, and in the
Miso/Han scenes has a poetic qual-
ity – ideal for expressing the themes of
longing and memory. Other scenes, es-
pecially those with Cash, contain well-
written humour and are entertaining.
The actors make the most of this, and
several times I was impressed with the
quality of delivery. Cash’s Essex accent
was wonderfully to-the-point. Miso’s
middle-class English tones sounded
a bit too authentic for someone who
left Korea at seven, but made her es-
trangement with her native land is ob-
vious throughout. The staging, while
simple, was nice, and the Soho studio
theatre space was used to good effect
– the modernist design of the building
seeming to echo the present-day urban
Korean landscape in which the play is
set.
So, we are provided with a nicely
round aesthetic experience. At the cen-
tre are authentic themes of love tran-
scending time. Go see it, if you think
can work out what it all means. And
then tell me.
Showing at the Soho Theatre
until 7th March
Ooh Baby Baby.... Jennifer Lim as Miso and the Essex Boy Jack Cash. Courtesy of Simon Kane
F
ew Shakespeare plays kick
off with Calvin Harris’ dance
tune, ‘Girls’, with the sup-
posed streets of sixteenth
century Padua resembling
any given town in Britain on a Satur-
day night – drunken antics in shop-
ping trolleys and blow-up naked dolls
included.
This is how Conall Morrison’s pro-
duction of The Taming of the Shrew
for the Royal Shakespeare Company
captures the attention of the teenaged,
half-term audience, before the fear of
sitting through three hours of Shake-
speare kicks in.
Believed to be one of his first plays,
The Taming of the Shrew is a comedy set
in Padua, home to the travelling Italian
theatre group the Commedia dell’Arte.
The group toured England at the time
when Shakespeare was a boy and are
thought to have influenced him, ex-
ploring the oldest and most pervasive
form of discrimination: misogyny. The
wealthy Baptista has two daughters;
the younger, fair Bianca with suitors
a-plenty and the wild, acid-tongued
Katherina, to whom no man dares go.
Bianca’s suitors, frustrated with her
father’s refusal to let Bianca wed be-
fore her older sister, find a man mad
enough to marry Katherina (for her
large dowry). Enter Petruchio, who is
more than a match for the Shrew and
eventually succeeds in bending her
to his will, taming her in the process.
Much comedy and confusion ensue
after master and servant, Lucentio and
Tranio, swap roles so that Lucentio
may woo Bianca under the guise of be-
ing her tutor.
Conall Morisson has managed to
make Shakespeare’s dialogue and wit
not only decipherable but also hilari-
ous, whilst at the same time breaking
apart any preconceived notions of the
playwright being cumbersome and
stiff.
The script is tied to the energetic,
highly slapstick ‘choreography’, seam-
lessly making the play flow but also
making us feel as if we are watching
a Ben Stiller comedy. And it is in this
where the play fails.
The first twenty minutes of the pro-
duction feel more like a pantomime,
with much overacting and a totally
superfluous song-and-dance routine.
The play resumes some slight seri-
ousness when the modern attire is
relinquished for period costume and
Stephen Boxer drops his Brummie
accent for the standard RP, one more
fitting for a Shakespearean lead, as he
takes on the role of Petruchio after
playing the drunk Christopher Sly in
the induction.
The next two and a half hours waver
between the script’s excellence shin-
ing through and being swamped under
bawdy gestures which make you slight-
ly embarrassed, especially on behalf of
any of the exceptionally young or ex-
ceptionally old in the audience.
Special mention should go to Keir
Charles, who receives many laughs as
Celebrating 400 years of misogyny
Shakespeare’s first play has a bawdy make-over in this RSC production, Caz Knight reports back.
Tranio with barely any obscene ges-
tures. Michelle Gomez is superbly
cast as the Shrew, but we are left with
the feeling that she is a bit of a one-
trick pony after seeing her rehash her,
admittedly highly entertaining and
unique, role as Sue White in Green
Wing. However, she pulls off Kath-
erina’s closing monologue with the
gravitas it requires.
The Guardian criticised this produc-
tion for glorifying domestic violence,
as Petruchio goads and berates Kath-
erina until she finally gives into obedi-
ence. It is easy to see how the issues
contained within the play could make
people uncomfortable given today’s
vehement struggle for sexual equality:
the man gets what he wants and the
woman learns to want what she gets.
And yet, the play continues to run a
good four hundred and twenty years
after conception: perhaps a bit of dis-
comfort is worth the price of making
sure these great works live on.
F
or once, I thought that when
I saw the words “Catholic
Priest” on the blurb of this
new play, maybe paedophilia
would be taking a night off.
However, when you see the words
“Catholic”, “priest” and “befriend” all
in one sentence, you know it isn’t to be
the case. I entered the auditorium of
the Donmar Warehouse full of suspi-
cion and distrust. I had never seen this
topic treated sensitively, but I was to be
surprised. Be Near Me is the stage ad-
aptation of the Booker-prize nominat-
ed novel of the same name by Andrew
O’Hagan, which sees an Oxford-edu-
cated Catholic priest enter a parish in a
pitiable town in Ayrshire, Scotland.
Loneliness ensues, but he is rejuvenat-
ed by the striking up an odd friendship
with two chavs. Father Anderton is
played by the awesome Ian McDiarmid
– you may know him as The Emperor
in the Star Wars films. After being star-
struck for at least half of the first act,
we get to know Father Anderton as a
kind, thoughtful pastor but with no real
passion for the community he has been
placed in. He is far more interested in
his vintage wine, classical music and
reciting poetry with his determined
housekeeper Mrs Poole, who is por-
trayed magnificently by Blythe Duff.
The play opens with some beauti-
ful prose recited by Father Anderton,
which will reappear hauntingly at the
end of the play. The unusual sound-
track for the play involves members
of the cast singing patriotic Scottish
songs and hymns which is rather lost
on the central London audience but I
am promised that when the play first
opened in Glasgow, the songs were
met with strong, positive feelings.
Not only do the cast sing a number
of these ‘fillers’ between scenes, but the
cast mostly stays on stage during the
entire first act as a symbol of the com-
munity in this small Scottish town.
The priest’s community falls apart as
the cast diminish during the second
act, when the priest looses allies and
friends after the unpreventable turn-
ing point in the play. The adaptation to
stage (written by Ian “Dark Side” McDi-
armid himself) is true to the book and
only leaves out some scenes concern-
ing Father Anderton’s past, which can
be hinted at quite easily on stage using
props and longing facial expressions.
The Donmar Warehouse is the perfect
setting for a play like this, as the audi-
ence comes right up to the stage so the
actor can see each face in the stalls, like
he is standing trial and the audience is
his jury. Be Near Me will mix up your
emotions and leave you feeling sad and
reflective, which I measure as a good
thing on a theatre scale.
There are some laughs, like “Some-
times, I like my drink more than I like
my children” or the inevitable chav/un-
employed/ “At least he’s got Sky” digs,
but these jokes get more and more
scarce as the play reaches it’s quiet cli-
max. Be Near Me is one for a fulfilling
night out, where your beliefs are chal-
lenged and eyes opened – see it and
you won’t regret it.
Be Near Me is showing at the
Donmar Warehouse, Covent Gar-
dren until 12th March
Star Wars Emperor in role of priest
Rosie Grayburn is star-struck with a performance from Star War’s Emperor, Ian Mcdiarmid.
Ian Mcdiarmid as Oxford-educated Father Anderton
Sex, money and violence: everything you need for the non-conformist Valentine’s day
Ian Mcdiarmid as Oxford-educated Father Anderton

