16 felix Friday 27 February 2009
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 27 February 2009 felix
Arts
Soviet friendly art for the people
Emilie Beauchamp reviews Constructivist Rodchenko’s post-revolutionary art at the Tate Modern
W
hat do we remem-
ber of Russian
Communism? For
most people under
thirty, we are re-
minded of a fluffy period where you
could hear about the Domino theory,
the Vietnam War, communes and hun-
gry peasants... In short, some of the
remains of a disaster. But Communism
in Russia spurred much more than just
disaster. In fact, the socio-political
setting of Bolshevik Revolution trig-
gered massive artistic movements in
the late 1910s, which were dominated
by Constructivism. Of this movement,
two artists have been glorified for their
inventive works: Liubov Popova and
Aleksandr Rodchenko. Both artists are
now being honoured at the Tate Mod-
ern until the 25th of May.
A concept coined in 1919, Construc-
tivism represents a rejection of the “art
for art’s sake” philosophy and thrives
to create art that would be meaningful
and multidimensional, questioning its
fundamental properties and its place
in society. In other words, art should
be like a social construction; purpose-
ful and made for the masses. Artisti-
cally, it translates into an interesting
progression, like responding argu-
ments in a discussion. The first phase
of the movement was dominated by
painting. Displaying sometimes mini-
malist, sometimes intricate, works of
geometrical shapes and rays, the art-
ists played mostly with colors and tex-
tures, developing graphic abstraction.
To the unused eye, the pieces could all
feel alike at first sight… However, after
two or three rooms, the differences in
style between Popova and Rodchenko
can readily be observed, and one can
appreciate the ongoing evolution in
techniques that are used. It has to be
said that Constructivism was not only
a form of artistic expression; it was the
embodiment of a whole societal phi-
losophy, taking the form of a debate,
a discussion, an introspection. An ut-
terly adequate reflection of the socio-
political context in which Russia was;
where one searched for the meaning of
art, the other explored the meaning of
societies. In itself, the diagnostic was
unanimous: both should be produc-
tive, organised and planned. This is
reflected in the perfect lines and cir-
cles pictured in paintings and sculp-
tures, defined in precision by ruler and
compass.
In the 1920s, Rodchenko and Popova
started exploring sculpture, moving
away from plane and platonic paint-
ing and forward to representations in
“real space”. Another parallel to Com-
munism, Constructivists believed art
was to be made collectively and for the
collectivities; it therefore regrouped
many artists working in collaboration
for most of the movement’s prepon-
derance in Russian arts.
Along these lines, the exhibition
presents Popova, Rodchenko and their
friends’ respective works as painters
and sculptors, as they develop follow-
ing the progression of Communism.
With Lenin’s New Economic Policy in
the 1920s, which allowed private en-
terprise to operate on a limited scale,
Rodchenko, Popova and their entire
circle turned to be productive for so-
ciety by adapting their art to be more
useful to everyday life. They there-
fore became architects, furniture and
fashion designers, advertisers, theatre
directors and more. Part of their time
was occupied by orders from the So-
viet government for propaganda post-
ers and political education campaigns.
While their pieces from the period
demonstrate more flexibility, and al-
lowed characters and figures to be
represented, it still depicted the same
purely mechanic and engineered style.
One can however appreciate much of
the new uses they found for their art.
In a very interesting outcome, Popova’s
numerous creations for the State Cot-
ton-Printing Factory in Moscow influ-
enced directly the daily lives of women
in Russia, as they bought the fabric to
make their dresses and started an en-
tirely new fashion. Constructivism is
also noticeable in that it was one of the
first periods when women were equally
valued and respected in arts than men,
thanks to Communists’ notion of the
equality of sexes.
Constructivism was ephemeral but
intense. As Stalin took power in late
1920s, Constructivism had lost ground
by the 1930s to Socialist, or Heroic
Realism, which glorified workers and
peasants in illusionary paintings and
grandiose sculptures. However, Con-
structivism inspired numerous oth-
ers than just our Bolshevik brothers
in their beginnings; it was the basis of
the eponymous movement that later
spread through Europe and America in
the ‘30s and ‘40s, and is still an impor-
tant figure in everyday designs.
Seemingly a forgotten ancestor of to-
day’s abstract and contemporary styles,
Constructivism has proven through
the Tate’s exhibition to be more than
interesting, it is enquiring. The dreary
selection of paintings showed at first
somehow explodes in an exponential
number of techniques and variations,
that makes this exhibition a fast-paced
and continuous discovery. Great work
Tate, it is always admirable to see what
geniuses can do out of a bunch of
squares and circles!
Showing at the Tate Modern until
17th May
Lyubov Popova, Construction 1920, Oil on canvas
Varvara Stepanova, Dancing Forms on a white background, 1920. Oil on canvas Aleksandr Rodchenko, Illustration for the magazine “Young Guard”, 1924
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editor – Dylan Lowe
Dylan Lowe
Travel Editor
And the
geese won
W
hat’s that around
your neck?”
“It’s a pendant,
fool.”
“Yeah I know, but
what’s it for?”
“Keeping me alive.”
It is essentially a fishhook, carved out
of cow bone, that dad had bought me
in Auckland years ago. A Maori sym-
bol, the indigenous people of NZ be-
lieved that it guarantees its bearer safe
journeys over land and water.
Surely, something like folklore and
superstition are way too irrational for
an Imperial mind, like mine, to believe
and rely upon?
That certainly was my mental-
ity when, the evening before my flight
back, the gore of a post- plane crash
hospital scene flashed upon the family
TV. My clutch on the pendant couldn’t
be firmer throughout the night and
during the flight.
As you might have gathered, I made
it back in one piece.
Aviation accidents have frequently
made it to our headlines, more so in
recent months than ever. Fresh out of
the news is the Amsterdam Schiphol
Crash today (Weds 25 Feb), closely fol-
lowed by the Buffalo crash two weeks
ago, a crash in Brazil and the Hudson
River Incident in January. Which puts
the grand total of commercial acci-
dents since the dawn of 2009 at four.
I don’t have a phobia for flying, in
fact quite the contrary; yet these fig-
ures (and those I go through during my
research) are enough to make my heart
race. I can’t help but worry.
For the love of god, I don’t want to die.
Not yet.
Right after Hudson River, an Ameri-
can friend made it clear on Facebook
that she is to never travel on a plane
ever again. After being accused – by
me – for scaremongering she proceed-
ed to exclaim that “a plane and some
geese got into a fight, and the geese
won”. However childish this might
sound (she is a research assistant at the
University of Auckland, in fact), the
statement has a certain degree of logic
in it. It carries the grandiose sentiment
one gets from staring into the face of
death. This is the harsh, but remote,
reality. The geese did get into a ‘fight’
with the aircraft, and they did bring it
down. Easy as.
But please, don’t let this put you off
flying. The last thing I want (as travel
editor) is to see my readers rot on this
island. Here are reasons why there is
absolutely nothing to fear about.
Whacking out the cliché, here is a sta-
tistical fact: you are more likely to die
in a car accident than in a plane crash.
More the apparent when you compare
the probability of fatality due to an avia-
tion accident (one in 11 million) to that
due to an automobile accident (one in
5000). The Times magazine had kindly
pointed out, in 2006, that “more than
500 times as many people die on U.S.
roads as in airline accidents”.
Flying is becoming progressively
safer. Other than the events of 9/11,
aviation technology of the 21st century
has reduced accidents and casualties to
the bare minimum. The high standards
of training for pilots meant tragedies
developed into tales of survival and
heroism – look no further than Hud-
son River and the stray landing of BA
Flight 38 (Jan 2008). Out of the four
accidents of 2009, two had all or most
of the passengers walking out of the
aircraft after a crash landing, thanks to
the composure and dexterity of the pi-
lots. Stick to the news and you will find
proof to my claims.
Speaking about media coverage, it
must be blamed for causing our fear
of flight. The media is responsible for
overdramatising airplane disasters as a
way to increase their financial gains –
how else could they get our attention?
In fact, it is this fear they had created
that they are now exploiting to manip-
ulate their readership.
We take risks in everyday situations.
Just as choking on food, keeping a pet
dog, taking a bath, even getting out of
bed – all of which, by the way, have a
higher death rate than flying – pres-
ent a death threat, travelling by flight
does involve some level of risk. So have
faith in modern aeronautics, and es-
pecially in our pilots. Have a pleasant
flight. Forget about the engine failures,
the fuel starvations. And I am sure the
geese can’t win every day.
Minced goose for dinner anyone?
Wieliczka Salt Mine
Dylan Lowe went underground and licked the wall - it’s salty
I
knew someone who had refused
to visit Poland because of his ha-
tred for Polish immigrants. How
pathetic. Not only is this racist
attitude totally unacceptable, he
is also missing out big time.
To forsake a country as culturally
and architecturally enriched as Poland
is utter idiocy. Which brings me to
my very own Polish experience. With
a tight schedule, Warsaw, a city still
staggering away from the obliteration
of WWII and subsequent Soviet rule,
was left out of the itinerary. Instead we
headed towards Krakow, the Medieval
Polish capital and home to Poland’s
finest of architecture.
City aside, the greatest testimony of
the Polish’s constructional genius lies
in Wieliczka, ten kilometres southeast
of Krakow Central, in the form of a salt
mine.
A salt mine? Care to say that again?
Active until 1996, the Wieliczka salt
mine had been operating for over nine
centuries. It is hard to imagine how a
dirt-cheap produce that is salt was the
medieval equivalent of oil; harder still
is that the mine is now a World Herit-
age site and major tourist attraction.
Loitering on the surface, somewhere
within the township of Wieliczka, I had
my doubts. I could almost smell a tour-
ist trap underneath my feet.
Upon entry, through a museum-
like complex, the flight of stairs was
what separated me from the moment
of truth. That was all four hundred of
those cursed steps, though it was more
like a thousand.
Accuse me of touristic ignorance
here, but I couldn’t honestly see the
merits of a narrow tunnel littered
with archaic mining gear. But then our
guide wasn’t even in the slightest un-
dermined by our lack of interest. He
was better aware that the boredom was
a mere prelude to what is to come.
So when the winches and lumber
vanished, and their replacements ap-
peared, the Pole had won back our
gusto. There were caverns. And pil-
lars. And pavements. And sculptures.
And statues. All cleaved out of rock
salt. The vaults were so hectic with
the spectacles that, two years on, the
memory of my visit has gone fuzzy. But
I can still remember recognising the
faces preserved in the halite, the joy of
finding and naming replicates of art-
work found, perhaps, in the Louvre. Oh
yeah, and not resisting the invitation to
lick the walls – I spent the reminder of
the tour craving for water.
You would think the dextrous pairs of
hands that carved out the masterpieces
– which includes, by the way, a relief of
Da Vinci’s The Last Supper – belonged
to true maestros of art. You would be
wrong. All it took were generations of
ordinary, unnamed salt miners, and
their endeavour to transform their
workplace and, indeed, homes, into a
sanctuary of craftsmanship.
Take the leap
“Bungee jumping originated from
the Vanuatuan coming-of-age ritual.
Tribesmen, tied to their ankles with
vines, would jump off wooden plat-
forms to prove their courage. This
ritual, called Gkol, is performed in the
Pentecost Island of Vanuatu.
Inspired by the footage of the Gkol,
members of the Oxford University
Dangerous Sport Club, attempted the
first modern bungee jump in Bristol.
The man responsible for commer-
cialising bungee jumping is A J Hack-
ett, a New Zealander, who opened
the first commercial jump site on the
Kawarau Bridge in Queenstown, New
Zealand in 1988. The man himself per-
And just as I thought I had had
enough flattery for one day, we ambled
into the Chapel of St Kinga.
The chapel itself is nothing more
than a subterranean church garnished
lavishly by religious sculptures and
bas-relief. The chandeliers, which
were made almost entirely of puri-
fied salt, draped the chamber with a
humble glimmer. But the essence of
the location, the sheer scale of labour
and history required to assemble such
glamour – it has rendered me speech-
less even now.
Maybe it was better expressed in
songs, since performing in this cav-
ernous concert hall (as a chorister in
a school choir tour) had produced the
most beautiful acoustics I have ever
heard in my fleeting career as a singer.
The Wieliczka salt mine represents
what I love the most about travelling:
to venture into a site with zero expec-
tations, and to come out completely
blown away. It is the discovery of
these hidden gems that makes the trip
worthwhile.
Even more fascinated still, I learnt
this: despite treading for three hours,
90m below ground, I had seen less than
a meagre 1% of the entire salt mine,
which consists of a 200km-long pas-
sage and 2040 caverns (of which I have
visited 20). And thanks to memories
like these, I am dying to go travelling
again. Still a month to go till Easter?
Damn.
The Chapel of Saint Kinga
formed many bungee stunts, which
include jumping from Eiffel Tower in
1987, from a helicopter at 380m, and
from the Royal Gorge Bridge, the high-
est suspension bridge in the world.
The highest-recorded bungee jump
was performed by Andrew Salisbury in
1991 (926m). The world’s highest com-
mercial bungee can be found in South
Africa, at a height of 216m.”
-
Well done to Jumper for sending in a
brilliant account of bungy jumping.
Want to tell us about your last holi-
day? Written an account of your travel
encounters? Please send it to travel.fe-
lix@imperial.ac.uk - I’d love to hear it!
A J Hacket - genius behind the
insanity
You see that kids? That’s a man.

