X
No. 201
W E D N E S D A Y
F E B R U A R Y 19
1964
U . G . S . K O ' s
S P O R T S C E N T R E ?
Electrical Engineering
The Electrical Engineering Sup-
plement of the 200th Issue was
produced and paid for by the
Electrical Department.
By a Staff Reporter
There's a hole in the north side, dear U.G.C., dear U.G.C.,
Bear U.G.C., A HOLE.
Weil, fill it, dear I.C., dear I.C., dear I.C.,
Dear I.C., fill it.
With what shall we fill it, dear U.G.C., dear U.G.G.?
Dear U.G.C., with what ?
With the sports centre, dear I.C., dear I.C. . . .
Dear I.C., with the sports centre, when we've finished discussing
it and finally decided that the students of Imperial College shall enjoy
sports facilities on their own campus.
The Site of the Sports Centre;
North Side,Princes Gardens.
G O R D O N
L O W E S
THE IDEAL SPORTS SHOP
GOOD DISCOUNTS FOR
ALL IC. MEMBERS
21-23 Brompton Arcade,
Knightsbridge, S.W3
KEN 4494/5/6
Rather like the story of poor Liza, the sports centre story drags
on and on.
At the moment the drawings are in the hands of the University
Grants Commission, that mystical body of men responsible for dish-
ing out the cash to Britain's impoverished Universities. And they
have been considering Richard Shepherd's design since May, 1963.
This might seem reasonable since the U.G.C. is contributing £70,000
towards the £205,000 cost for demolition and erection. But informed
sources say that the College had hoped to get the plans through in
2-3 months. They also add that the U.G.C. is using this as a test
case for the financing of student sports facilities, and that I.C.
studenfs are being used as guinea pigs.
Further money is coming from the Centenary Appeal fund
and from the Imperial College Union (£5,000).
Further delays were caused last July when a donation of £250,000
was given to the College to build a new Hall of Residence, and dis-
cussions developed concerning its siting. Mr. Shepherd has designed
the new Sports Centre, which will be only two storeys high, so that
in future a new Hall of Residence will be built above it. It was
eventually decided to site this new Hall at the South end of East Side.
The new facilities are to include squash courts, swimming pool,
rifle range, and indoor cricket net. A l l of which are urgently needed.
So come on U.G.C. let's have the okay, otherwise scientists will
be emigrating to the U.S.A. because the Sports facilities are not good
enough.
I.C. SI!
Y A N Q U I N O !
E.S.U. A T I.C.
" Yanks Go Home." That's
the motion before the howse at an
I.C. Union Debate on Thursday,
27th February; and president of
debates Gordon Hall hopes its
foing to spark off a real Zip-
anger of a debate. So much so,
in fact, that he's asked two^ mem-
bers of the American debating
team to speak. They are: Bob
Higgins, English grad. of King's
College, Wilkes-barre, Pennsyl-
vania, and John Swaney, a North
Texas State University graduate of
French. Both are experienced
debaters, and Swaney has fre-
quently demonstrated his art on
Texas T.V. The two of them
are over here with the English
Speaking Union.
Hall hopes that I.C. debaters
will make a special effort to im-
prove the standard of speeches
from the floor-especially as some
of lae E.S.U. officials will be
coming to listen.
So come on l.C, lets have your
views on those "Damn Yankees."
I.C. STUDENT SHOT
It is my regretable duty to in-
form the College that one of our
men has been shot. This tragic
incident occurred when the stu-
dent, Mr. Bossard, was out hunt-
ing pheasants with a friend. Mr.
Bossard was behind a gorse bush
at the time, when his " friend,"
seeing a movement behind the
bush, probably mistook him for
a Peasant, and shot him—in the
arm. He now walks round the
college looking like Napoleon,
with five shotgun pellet holes in
his arm protesting violently that
he is not a peasant.
Quo*em the Union Office
" I want to see Watkins."
" D'you mean Jenkins?"
" No! Watkinson."
"Who?"
" The President."
" Oh! Watson."
" Yes, something like that."

