4 FELIX
'PREC3 PUCE1
AT THE start of every session, every
President tends to burst forth in a rain of
banal platitudes, about the Union, urging
all students to 'participate'more, to become
aware, etc , etc. It is difficult for him to
do otherwise. However, I believe that it is
quite arrogant for any elected official to
say to his constituents 'Do as I say, and
everything will be o.k.', and that 'You've
got rid of the last lot — it'll all be different
now'. I do urge you to participate in the
activities and the decision-making of the
Union, as far as you are able. That is your
right and your duty, as a member of a
democratic organisation. However, I
recognise, and I think that the rest of the
Union's Officers do, as well, that we can
only expect you to participate if the Union
is seen to be taking up the problems and
issues that confront its membership. Above
all else, we, the Union Officers, have a
duty, not to the College or University, but
to the membership of the Union — to inform,
to organise, and to carry out, as best we
can, the wishes of the membership.
This is not to say that I think that the
President should continually compromise,
and pander to the whims and wishes of the
cliques that surround and abound within
the Union. Certainly not. I hold definite
views and adhere to definite principles
concerning the issues confronting students;
if I did not, it is unlikely that I would be
President. Therefore, I shall always, try
to put forward, in unity with the rest of the
Executive, a definite line on Union policy,
and argue as strongly as I know how, for
the Union to adopt that line.
The issues and policies that I hope to
see the Union take up this year I will
1 delineate below. However, it will be useful
to look back over the summer (remember
that we have been in office since 1st
August) and see what has been happening.
Living(?).
The accommodation crisis (and I use
the word advisedly) has been more acute
than ever, Despite, or because of, the fact
that IC is sited in the 'richest borough in
Britain', Kensington and Chelsea, there
is no kind of accommodation provided for
non-resident students. Many students are
once again trudging from their bedsits in
Wandsworth, Clapham, even Uxbridge
because of the high rents near College.
A few lucky people find places nearby (and
seldom realise how lucky they are), but of
the 65% of IC students living out of Hall
probably more than half live an unreasonable
distance from the College. In many cases,
the rooms offered are not of an acceptable
standard. Generally, though, the greatest
problem lies in actually finding suitable
places i.e. where you can have a friend in
after 6 p.m., where you can play the radio,
and, of course, where you can afford to pay
the bi Us
Rent Act.
The problem has been exacerbated by
the new amendments to the Rent Act,
giving students security of tenure. Many
landlords have, unjustif icably in my
view, withdrawn their furnished flats
from the student market, for fear that they
will not be able to shift students at the
end of the year. When they want to put
rents up, at this time, they cannot do so,
unless they shift their tenants. Many are
resorting to ruses such as giving some
kind of 'bed and breakfast' deal, under
which no-one has security; personally,
I would have thought that students are
more likely to move out at the end of the
year than anyone else.
/ discovered very early on that the
people suffering most in this respect are
those students who are married. There is
no purpose-built or rented accommodation
provided for them; very tew married
couples will live with families, in digs,
and given the introduction of the spouse's
contribution to the student grant, not
many married couples can afford expensive
flats. We have already contacted the
College on this question, and we intend
to press the case for the accommodation
of married students in double/triple rooms
in Student Houses and flats. This will
not be enough; first priority must be given
to this in any future acquisition of property.
The Union Building.
The developments initiated last year,
resulting in a transformation of the Union
Building are nearly complete. Room at
the Top and the new Union Office are
almost ready, while NUS Travel has
moved downstairs into the Lounge.
We took the Executive and General
Offices into the Union Building itself in
the hope that it would encourage people
to use the Union and to relate the
administrative structure of the Union to
the rest of it. Similarly, all the Public-
ations apparatus (including the dyeline
machine) is located under the Arch, to
provide a cohesive unit, under the aegis
of the Publications Officer (who is also
the Editor of FELIX). New furniture has
been moved in, and the old stuff thrown
out. The Refectory is in considerably
better shape than before, if not perfect.
We hope that, during this year, that
the Union Building will be the focus of
student activity, and that all students
will regard it as their own building, where
they can sit, read, talk, or indulge in
their own peculiar hobbies, and not as
the property of the groups that traditionally
frequent it.
C C U's.
Turning to the coming year, the role
of the CCU's in student life cannot be
ignored. The function that they fulfill
within the Union is largely social but
essential, and will remain so. Large
numbers of students are involved in their
activities, and the CCU Presidents form
a link between the Executive and a section
of the membership. Their attitudes and
performance are therefore, quite crucial
to the organisational strength of the
Union. Without neglecting their duties to
the people who elected them, I expect
the CCU Presidents to play an important
part, as members of the Executive, in the
formation of policy and the forging of
that unity so necessary to the success
of the Union's campaigns.
More Women.
Among the points that we have raised
with the College in the last year, one of
the most far-reaching is that of encouraging
more women to enter IC. On a purely
social level, the effects of a ten-to-one
ratio is a 'closed' community like this
are obvious.
More importantly, the fact that women
are actively discouraged from taking up
careers in science and technology is a
clear indication that even in the day of
the 'liberated' woman, the female sex is
still debarred, through the education
system, from playing an important role in
Trev Phillips
our society and we must challenge this.
Another sector of our membership
which still faces discrimination, nation-
ally and locally, institutionally and
personally, and above all financially, is
the overseas students. The Union already
has extensive policy on this and we shall
be pursuing it throughout the year.
Education?
Of all the questions raised amongst
students, the most fundamental relate
directly to the process of 'education'
and the education system. The recent
massive cuts in the education budget,
havp had two mmed iate efferts on studpnts.
The first is that the costs of services in
the College have shot up, e.g. Refectory
prices and Hall fees rise (This is post-
dated however. See p. 10 — Ed), thereby
nullifying the effect of the grant rise.
Thus, it is wrong to argue, as some
people have, that the last award meant
the end of the Grants Campaign.
What it did show was that we must
now concentrate not on the level of the
grant, but on putting an end to the
anomalies and injustices in the system,
particularly the system of discretionary
awards, and the Mean(s) Test.
Second, it is clear that the standards
of education will drop. An indication of
this is given by the falling lecturer-
student ratio and the loss of facilities,
or even entire buildings. With the already
inadequate teaching standards, it is clear
that the student's primary concern,
attainment of a good education, is
endangered.
Teachers or Crammers?
Along with compaigning for better
finance, I hope that the Union will work
for an improvement in teaching, through
proper training of new lecturers, and new
audio-visual aids to teaching. One of the
most common complaints amongst under-
graduates is poor lecturing; we have
reached the stage where students skip
lecturers simply because it would be of
little use to go.
Coupled with this, many members
would like to see the opportunities to
take Associated Studies expanded, without
losing the option to specialise. I agree,
and will take this up very strongly,
though a few departments (who shall be
nameless) still resist progress.
These are some of the policies that I
will be pursuing during the year, and in
future (shorter) (Thank God - Typist)
articles will enlarge on them individually.
It is not enough for me to say, I shall
do this and do that. The President and
Executive are only influential by virtue
of the fact that they speak for the Union.
It is only with the clear support of the
Union that their words or actions carry
any weight. It is only with the hard work
and committment of the Union's Officers
that WP ran be successful: there must be
no place tor the freeloaders and parasites
that continually refuse to work in the
interests of students while taking the
benefits of elected office. Finally, it is
only by unity in active campaigning that
the Union can improve the lot of its
members.

