FRIDAY, 1ST
MARCH, 2019 FELIX
20 21
ISSUE 1716
SABB REVIEW
FELIX
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SABB REVIEW news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rob Tomkies - Union President James Medler - Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies)
J
ames' performance as DPCS thus far has been
something of a masterclass in "how to sabb"
and highlights the importance of adequately
researching the role and what it entails prior to
writing your manifesto. James has seen major "wins"
in his first six months largely because his manifesto
built on the work of his predecessors. These wins
include the refurbishment and expansion of Ethos
gym. He has also managed to secure almost £500,00
funding for the Union Concert Hall and is currently
B
ecause you're President, when you run
on a manifesto, you have quite a lot of
broad points and part of it is shaping a
team that will be able to do it rather than
necessarily taking on every single project yourself
because it’s simply not possible". I feel like this
perfectly sums up Rob's performance. He has
been an effective leader, taking a more hands-off/
Manifesto
What do I want? I want to ensure fresh ideas come through the union so that
we can make long standing positive change while building on the successes of
this year’s team.
What are my goals?
Finance and Services:
• Better funding for your constituent unions, clubs and societies through a
centralised sponsorship support centre*
• Better food, including halal and vegan, at all hours, at all campuses
through conducting a complete catering review.
Clubs and Societies:
• Ethos expansion with usage-based equipment – lets end the overcrowd-
ing. TICK
• A referendum on the Sport Imperial mascot – Do we really want a lion?
CROSS
Wellbeing:
• Wednesday opening of the advice centre and introduction of skype ap-
pointments.*
• Increase student support for welfare and campaigns at non-South Kens-
ington campuses.*
Strategy:
• Guaranteed internal varsity.
• Campaign to secure increased student study space available to all through
repurposing the newly vacated chemistry building. IN PROGRESS
wholistic approach to the job and ensuring that he appropriately supports
the Officer Trustees below him. Having said that, he has also done well to
achieve the majority of his main manifesto points (see below; the stars in-
dicate partially completed manifesto points). Outside of his manifesto, Rob
has been involved in various projects, including governance, disciplinary
review, Graduate Students' Union review, policy review and Officer Trustee
role review.
Felix: Do you like the direction the Union is currently going in?
Rob: I don’t think I would have run if I thought it was perfect – manifestos are
almost entirely about change, I ran on the idea of change. I agree with the vision,
maybe I have questions on how to get there. Overall, the big impact and the big
pieces we do are the right ones.
We’ve recently seen examples of the sabbs being left out of big
decisions made by college/union – what are your thoughts on this?
Union decisions- it’s part on us, recently we’ve completely redeveloped the
way that the Leadership Team works. That side has definitely been a challenge so
far but I think that the approach that we’ve taken in the last couple of weeks in
tackling that has been really positive and we are actually beginning to see a way
forward and a framework that may work. The College side is really frustrating. In
all honesty, we sit in too many meetings as it is. College is so large, it’s impossible
to be at every table, the challenge is making sure we’re at the right table at the
right time, which I think largely we are.
Claudia Caravello - Deputy
President (Finance & Services)
C
laudia has arguably had the most difficult
time as a Sabb. Analysing her manifesto,
although she has made some changes that
she said she would, there are substantial
gaps. This is not completely her fault and complaints
of "friction" between her and members of the Senior
Management Group (SMG). She told Felix, "within
the Union, between the senior staff and the Officer
Trustees, there is a disconnect. We have highlighted it
and we’re addressing it. In most cases, it’s actually not
too bad. I happen to experienced most of the extreme
Manifesto
My promises:
STUDENTS AT THE HEART OF DECISIONS
• Making YOU the decision makers of events and big changes, so another
Bud Light incident doesn't happen again!
• Infographics on how Union income is spent on YOU
FOOD & DRINK
• Focus on Union food quality and deals
• Introduce online ordering system
• Bring back SCR breakfast, or start it at the Union*
• Reduce queues at Library Café and College Café
• Bring back bendy straws
TRANSPORT
• Transport to Harlington on Mondays and Wednesdays
• Ensure students get home safe by introducing an end-of-night Union
minibus drop off system
• Improve minibuses upkeep
CSPs
• Negotiate with College to make more departmental spaces available to
CSPs
• Lunchtime drop-in sessions
• Useful, quality training, delivered at the right times
EXTERNAL INCOME
• Make the Union less dependent on student spending
• Develop online shop to sell to global alumni/prospective students
• Advertise facilities to public during the holidays
• Generate income from eActivities by licencing to other Unions
ends of this." Claudia also doesn't feel the Officer Trustees are adequately sup-
ported, making her "feel very lost". She revealed, "it has really taken a knock
on my confidence. The Union environment had got quite toxic at times. It felt
very lonely. It’s been quite a big battle coming back from that." Claudia's ex-
perience as a Sabb highlights the problems with the structure that exists within
the Union and the need for adequate support, both pastoral and operational, for
the Officer Trustees. SMG has been described as her "biggest obstacle" when
trying to "make a change", however this has been identified and strides are
being made to remedy this issue.
Alejandro Luy - Deputy President
(Education)
A
lejandro has had a successful six months
in the role, completing the majority of his
major manifesto points. He started off the
year by re-writing the training for academ-
ic representatives, which was met with widespread
praise. Since then, his progress hasn't slowed. He
told Felix, " I’ve been working very closely with the
Student Shapers team to develop the whole program.
We’ve developed everything from the criteria for
Manifesto
Improved Feedback
• Feedback at Imperial should be a strength, not a weakness. I will continue
the work of the current DPE so that every student at Imperial College
receives timely, high-quality feedback.
Student Involvement in Curriculum Reviews
• As part of the Learning and Teaching Strategy, curriculums are being
re-written across college and I am committed to seeing students integrat-
ed into the process from start to end.
Enhancement of the Academic Representation Network
• I will develop practical training materials and effective communication
channels to ensure that your Academic Representatives have the training
and resources they need to represent you well.
Implementation of StudentShapers
• I will spearhead the implementation of the new StudentShapers scheme,
which provides paid opportunities for students (maybe you!) to shape
their own educations.
PG Timetabling
• This is still an issue, and it really shouldn’t be. Just like DPE’s before me,
I will continue to fight to protect your Wednesday afternoons.
a project to what the partnership between staff and student should look like".
Alejandro's response to the news that h-bar would be cutting its evening bar
food service, without consultation with the Officer Trustees, is indicative of his
optimism. He prefers to see this as an opportunity to look at providing a better
offering to students through the Union. However, this could also be perceived as
being unwilling to effectively lobby College for changes that would benefit the
students. It is a fine balance indeed.
Felix: How realistic is it to effect meaningful change as a Sabbatical
Officer?
Alejandro: We are very privileged to have the level of influence that we have
as sabbatical officers. The Officer Trustees have very close working relationships
with College - in those relationships, we’re perceived as essential voices in the
process of developing anything. We have a lot more influence and opportunities
for impact than I first anticipated
Manifesto
EXPAND ETHOS GYM TICK
• Pressure College to expand gym space
• Investigate external gym and space provider partnerships across London
• Pressure college for an investment into a wider range of sport and well-
being facilities
DEDICATED ATHLETICS HUB TICK
• Join key parts of Sport Imperial and the Union, to make one team ac-
countable for sporting decisions, with a student decision-maker at the top
MORE BOOKABLE SPACE / PROCESS IMPROVEMENT
• Pressure college to prioritise clubs and societies bookings in under-uti-
lised space
• Ensure CSPs have the appropriate space for their activity, and what is
required to do their activity
• Ensure students understand how key union processes work (ie minibuses),
through mediums such as infographics
ONLINE CSP SUPPORT PORTAL
• Create an online space for queries directing you to the relevant people
immediately
REGULAR OPEN OFFICE MEETINGS / A FRIENDLIER UNION
• Regular update meetings on my progress open to all
• Regular open office times for students to come with queries
• Regular visits to CSP activities to see problems first hand
working on a "big project management piece" looking to adapt the structure of
the Union itself. James told Felix: "A lot of the problems that people have with
the Union are 'it's not very effective', 'we're not very efficient at dealing with
projects', 'we're not very good at replying to emails'. All of that is down to the fact
that, under our current model, there aren't enough people to do all of the jobs. It
wasn't designed in a way to deal with problems effectively."
Felix: Do you think sabbatical officers are adequately supported?
James: I feel our current structure and current way of working isn't effective
enough to support the sabbs in the way it should be. Everybody has the same
view of wanting to support the sabbs and wanting to do these new projects and
wanting to get it done but the way we're currently set up means that's not always
possible. I think everybody is aware of that and it's a pain.I dont think we're quite
structured right, I think there should be more flexibility within our structure so
teams can work more collaboratively.

