FRIDAY, 1ST
MARCH, 2019 FELIX
22
SABB REVIEW news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Becky Neil - Deputy President
(Welfare)
Dan Faehndrich - ISCMSU
President
W
ith the ICSMSU being run as a
separate Contituent Union under the
umbrella of Imperial College Union,
it is slightly more difficult to make
sense of the impact that Dan has had in his role
as ICSMSU President. On the surface, it appears
he is doing an excellent job, ticking off all of his
main manifesto points to some degree. ICSM is
facing a challenge due to the impending Curric-
ulum Review, which is also affecting many other
M
easuring Becky's achievements in the
first six months in the role highlights
a major issue with the nature of the
role as an Officer Trustee. You write a
manifesto with lots of ambitious points but, when
you find yourself in the role, you are met with a
multitude of other tasks that you hadn't previously
forseen. These tasks can include anything from
large projects handed down from your predeces-
Manifesto
Welfare is a major issue facing students and College are finally acknowledging
and listening to students. College must deliver efficient, resourced, fully-funded
services and be held to account for their welfare decisions. College is currently
compiling theWellbeing Strategy and I plan to make sure this strategy has student
consultation, is efficient in providing the services you need and is delivered to its
best. You need a DPW that can provide this, and I have the experience, passion
and drive to ensure this happens.
Objectives:
• Ensure the Wellbeing Strategy is fully-funded, resourced and delivered
by College across all campuses.
• Cut counselling waiting times and review the missed appointments policy.
• Subsidise tampons/sanitary products further
• Stop talking about personal tutors and make changes
• Support student-led, liberation and community officer campaigns
• Collect student suggestions/complaints using an anonymous online
system
• More training, support and development for Wellbeing Representation
Network volunteers
• Ensure freshers receive adequate information regarding self-care, welfare,
well-being and where to find help regardless of where they live.
• Run union-wide Mums and Dads events
sors that end up taking up the majority of your time, to minor administrative
tasks which can easily build up. You may also be met with more opposition
than you had anticipated, or find yourself inadequately supported (as has
been echoed by the other Officer Trustees). As a result, much of Becky's
manifesto points are under the "work-in-progress" status and will be the
focus of the remainder of her tenure. One major failing on Becky's behalf
is the engagement of the Liberation & Community Officers. Although
Becky is well-intentioned in that respect, it has become apparent that the
whole structure of the Liberation & Community zones needs widespread
reform before it can effectively deliver results to the students. Having said
that, Becky launched the inaugural Liberation & Community Week and
hs supported the officers as much as the flawed system has allowed her.
Areas where Becky has underperformed actually further highlight the lack
of adequate support provided by the Union - case in point is the petition
system, which still hasn't been implemented because the Systems team is
overworked and unable to support Becky there.
Felix: What have you and College delivered?
Becky: I helped make a disabilities rent subsidy happen so that means that
anyone with a disability that has had to be in halls in South Kensington gets
around £100 subsidy because they can’t live far away. I had input in the new
mitigating circumstances policy. I got that changed a little bit and they’ve defi-
nitely looked more carefully at what they’re doing. The student support strategy
is happening but it’s incredibly slow.
Manifesto
• Establish both academic and extra-curricular provisions to mitigate any
issues faced due to the growing cohort of students
• Maintain and develop the Student Consultation on the Curriculum Review
to create the best teaching experience for our current and future ICSM
students
• Develop our Entertainments and Extra-Curricular activities to be inclu-
sive for all students
• Develop our comprehensive Welfare strategy and Wellbeing Representa-
tion Network to be accessible to and cater for students of all backgrounds
• Promote opportunities for leadership training both to those who are in
charge of your time here at ICSM, and to all students to develop their skill
set for their time at ICSM, and future careers
faculties. In addition, the SU is looking to implement a culture shift within
ICSM by increasing its inclusivity and, hence, improving its offering and
ensuring the SU functions to cater to all students. Speaking to Felix, Dan
said: "Communication has been the biggest, most pressing issue throughout
the year. We've realised that there were a lot of key areas that we lacked.
It wasn't just general communication but the way we communicate with
different bodies of the College and ICU and help them understand how we
function, us understanding how they function so we can slot in and work
better".
Another challenge that ICSM has been faced with is the growing cohort of
students. One of the resultant impacts of this is the size of the first year cohort
"basically outgrowing the lecture theatres and spaces". In response, Dan says,
"with the new curriculum coming in next year, we're looking at how we can shift
the way we're using spaces, shift the class numbers to work round that and that's
something that we've been having constant input on with faculty. Putting out
consulatation to students about how they'd like to see space repurposed is a key
part of that.
In response to complaints regarding the 'clubs and socs' room in Reynolds,
Dan explained:
"In progress. It's all gone a bit slowly but we had the clubs and socs room itself
redone and now we're looking at how we use the space in the clubs and socs room
more effectively. Unfortunately, in the interim, that's moved into the common
room, where the microwave is and we have had that raisedto us very recently.
It's something we're going to try and sort out, hopefully making sure the facilities
like the microwave are accessible in the next week or two"
Felix:Youmentionmaintaininganddevelopingstudentconsultation.
Firstly, do you think you've don that and how have you done it?
Dan: I have done it, I’m very happy with it. We started off last year, we used
mainly SU officer-student engagement so we had our welfare officers, our pres-
ident, deputy president and our academic officers all-round the table discussing.
We tried three main different types of consultation since then. The most effective
one we’ve had so far that hasn’t just involved elected reps has been going out to
our various hospital sites and doing engagement with the third years out there.
Getting them together in a room, talking to them about what the curriculum
review is, what we’ve got so far and what they’d like to see changed or what
support they’d like from the faculty for them to be able to carry out their roles as
academic mentors and supervisors

