Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 26 January
The Leadership Elections 2018
Summer Ball 2018
Varsity Fest
Imperial Award 2018
The great thing about studying at an international top ten university is that
you’ll all graduate with a deep, fundamental knowledge of your chosen
disciplines, but you’ll also have to prepare for your professional lives as
the leaders of tomorrow.
The Imperial Award has been designed to help you prepare for this by
formally recognising your personal achievements and your personal
development through self-reflection. You’ll come out the other end with
a portfolio that will help you provide evidence of how you have developed
specific personal attributes, valued by society and employers. Success
in one or more streams of the Award will earn you extra lines on your
graduation transcript.
Register now: http://www.imperial.ac.uk/students/imperial-award/
You may have noticed a new feature in the Union building.We’ve installed
a new charge box, a handy phone-charging unit which will become your
best friend when you’re going through that dreaded battery crisis. The
charge box sits right across from the ATM at the entrance on the ground
floor .
There are four units available and you can charge your phone for up to 30
minutes at a time.
If you have any questions or comments please email Matt Blackett at
dpfs@imperial.ac.uk.
For feedback, email union@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial Medics and Imperial College London sports teams will soon be
going head to head in the 16th instalment of VarsityFest!
The festivities begin with Water Polo at Ethos on Friday 23 February,
followed by Hockey at Harlington on Wednesday 28 February. Join us at
Heston on Saturday 3 March for a full day of fixtures. Aside from the thrills
of the matches, there will be plenty of other activities: live entertainment,
face painting, food and drink stalls and more!
Showcase and Headline matches are decided by you! The options you
can vote for are Men’s Rugby (1stTeam), Netball (1stTeam) and Kabaddi.
Visit bit.ly/2DEf2Za to cast your vote!
Nominations for the 2018 Leadership Elections open nextWednesday 31
January. Hundreds of positions will open for a range of leadership roles
across Imperial.
Whether you want to be an Academic or Wellbeing Representative,
Liberation & Community Officer, a Student Trustee, a leader of your
favourite Club or Constituent Union, or take on a full-time role as Felix
Editor , this is your chance.
Nominations close at midnight on 25 February and voting begins at noon
on 02 March.
Submit your nomination now at imperialcollegeunion.org/elections.

