Sport
EDITORIAL
The next A C C meeting is on Tuesday 15
November at 6:30pm in the Lower Refectory.
'Stoats Club' socials will be starting soon, you
have been warned.
Last week's cock-ups section: sincere apol-
ogies to Sailing Club, who, owing to an 'ad-
ministrative error' appeared as Rifle and Pis-
tol. I realise that this was a great insult to
them, and I grovel most humbly. Secondly, I
apologise to myself. The Badminton social
will be on Thursday 1 December, not as
printed.
If any other clubs are wondering why the
Sports Page has articles from the same clubs
each week, it's because they're the only clubs
that write articles.
John Scott
It is hoped during the next few weeks to get an
Imperial College Waterskiing Club rolling
(skiing?). Initially, it looks like we'll be skiing
on Wednesday afternoons at the West India
docks, where we can get a reduced rate with
the Albatross Wind & Water Club. Later, we
may be able to arrange weekends on the
South Coast. Beginners are welcome (and one
of them is writing this!), likewise experienced
skiers. Equipment and instruction supplied.
Everything depends upon the response we
get, so, if you are interested, contact Mike
Mclean, Mining PG, John Maxey or Trevor
Power, both Mech Eng 1.
Cycl
Last Sunday the Cycling Club rode down to
Brighton with the veteran cars. We split up
into a fast group and a slow group—the
majority of riders started in the fast group.
Although the fast group soon split up, they
met again at a roadside snack bar near
Gatwick then proceeded on to overtake nu-
merous veteran cars. Soon the group were
weaving through the roads of Brighton and
began to jostle for good sprinting positions
but hopes of putting in a sprint finish were
destroyed when the final road was seen to be
packed with traffic—well never mind, we beat
Bo and Jez anyway (just) after giving them a
three-quarter hour start!
After downing chips and Pepsi, two keen
members set off back to London (must be
scared of trains) and while the others were
paddling, madman Gary Hotchkiss stripped
down to his racing shorts and went for a
swim. After drying off, the group caught the
train back after a very enjoyable day (time:
three and a half hours including stops).
Page 12 • ^ • H B H I
IC3 Entertainments Present:
'The Curse of the Shiny Red Kit'
A play in four acts starring:
Mark Whitehead "A man of savagely curling
shorts"—FELIX
Bryce Goldsborough, "Incomprehensible,
impassable, incomparable individual"—
Northern Alliterist Weekly.
Anton Milner, "sounds like a pinko to us"—
1922 Commitee
Jim Downing, "I thought we were playing
rugger"—Jim Downing.
Plus support cast.
Act 1
The troupe spend two hours investigating
Charing X architecture, Wendyburgers etc,
because we seem to have nothing better to do.
Act 2
First half curtain opens at 3-15 in gathering
gloom. Mark doesn't score so we run around
a bit to keep warm.
Act 3
Second half storm tactics involve running
away from keeper Paul a lot because he forgot
his deodorant. Mark scores so we jump on
top of each other a lot to keep warm.
Act 4
Potato soup and John Smith cocktails are
consumed in celebration.
Moral of Story: Just because you've got a
shiny red one doesn't mean you can't score.
Final Score: Goldsmith 3 0 IC 3 1
-Flash
Hockey 2nds: IC 1 British Airways 1
The Case Against British Airways
"You are charged that on the afternoon of
Saturday last, you and your team did willfully
contrive to play the worst, and most
unsportsmanlike, seventy minutes of hockey
seen for many years, and yet still had the
impudence to leave with a draw. Do you have
anything to say for yourself?"
"Well, your honour, we were totally over-
awed by the occasion. To play against IC at
Harlington is every baggage-handlers dream,
and "
"Silence! We will move on to the circum-
stances of your goal. Is it not true that you
were so frustrated by your inability to score,
that you did force your umpire to award a
penalty for a perfectly legal challenge?"
"I'm afraid so your honour, but the game
was nearly over and we were losing. I apolo-
gise for any undue suffering we have caused."
"Grovelling will get you nowhere you
pathetic creature. However on this occasion I
am prepared to be lenient: you are to leave
this court and spend the rest of the seaon in
the very 'darkest' depths at the bottom of the
league, whence you shall be taken to your
place of execution—a small town called
Sunbury."
"Hello Ron, is that you?"
"Oh Robert. How are you? I'm terribly
sorry you had so much trouble getting
through to me."
"Yes. It was that stupid secretary of yours.
Kept saying you were in conference and
couldn't be distrubed."
"Well, of course, when I heard it was you
on the phone I told the Russkies to stuff their
proposals and came straight to the phone to
speak to you."
"OK. Listen closely. What I have to say is
very important. On Wednesday 2 November
1983, IC Cross Country Club held their an-
nual friendly at Richmond Park. On a wet,
muggy afternoon about thirty runners
attempted the five mile course of which ap-
proximately fifteen ran the correct course and
the rest got lost. Graham Harker, the first
person home, judged the race well because
everyone in front of him ran the wrong way.
"Have you got that Ron? I'm sure you
understand the implications if any word of
this ever got out. I hope to God this line isn't
tapped. Give my love to Nancy. Bye."
"Goodbye, Robert and thank you."
Friday night saw the highly-organised masses
of the Water Polo team travelling in dribs and
drabs to Isleworth for our final match in the
Middlesex League Competition.
Prospects did not look too hot, with three
of our star players unavailable—one drinking
his way up a canal somewhere, one with
broken fingers (sustained during experiments
with products of 'The Spanish Fly Com-
pany') and the other telling everyone to say
they hadn't seem him.
We started the match while still missing
Richard, who was speeding on his way Beetle-
style from Beckenham. After two minutes of
the first quarter, we were 2-1 down and about
to concede another goal when your intrepid
reporter went to block the threatened shot,
and sacrificed his right eyelid in the process.
Two hours and four stitches later I found
out we'd won 8-6 and everybody played very
well. This means we remain in the top divi-
sion. Players should stand by to win ULU
knockout later on in the month.
Paul Edwards
gby
\ Friday, 11 November, 1983 m
IC Rugby 1st XV vs Roehampton Institute
The Is X V set off to Roehampton with a
much depleted side from the one that won the
cup game on Wednesday. It did not matter
however as IC scored two tries in the first five
minutes and continued to score at a steady
rate. By the final whistle IC had scored 11
tries and won by 60-0.
— — ^ — — I I '

