lsts vs St Georges 2-0
lsts vs Southampton 1-1
A vs Southampton 1-1
< After an energetic boat rebuilding session last
Wednesday, Imperial College SC were once
again in a position to take the formidable seas
of the Welsh Harp at the weekend. Two, IC
teams took on sailors from as far afield as
Southampton and Burnham in races which
were as hotly contested as the final of the
America's Cup. The first team, under the
direction of Jones, soon had St Georges un-
der control, sailing them convincingly to the
back of the fleet in the first race. But St
Georges would not accept defeat and fought
back in the second race to take a very credible
first place. However the remainder of their
team were not given such an easy time and
some excellent sailing by the IC team soon
forced the opposition into a losing position.
Southampton were given effective treat-
ment by both Imperial A and Imperial lsts,
with both teams beating the opposition in one
race. The match would have been more hotly
contested but for one Firefly with a cast iron
centreboard which severely disadvantaged
one team. Imperial will prove their domin-
ance when sailing at Southampton later in the
year.
IC v Kings (Fencing)
Despite laying waste QMC's swordsmen and
women last week, IC could not display such
verve and dash against Kings who fielded a
strong team at the worst of times. Thanks to
Tony's father for presiding over the sabre
competition, this meant that the usual frac-
tious arguments about who hit whom, when,
where, how and why did not arise and we set
about slicing one another up with gay aban-
don.
The lady foilists set about their task with
the raw aggression that make the normally
strong stomached individuals flinch, but even
after all the entrails and gore were swept away
things were grim for IC.
The first men's foilists were also run
through by the Kingsmen; but a ray of hope,
the second men's foil team had won and there
was reverie and joy in the IC camp.
Finally Epee, which although took a very
long time to fence (the rest of both teams
sensibly had adjourned to the bar so as not to
break the concentration of the fencers), IC
showed a creditable performance, so all in all,
a good time was had by all. Thanks to all
those who took part and those who came to
watch.
Reuter
In last week's exciting episode, the captain h
a toss. Read on, if you can
A good start was provided by Eastland and
Helsby (63), as per usual, followed by a fine
innings of 54 by Harlow This left IC in a
strong position at 152-2 after 32 overs. The
rest of the IC batting however lacked practice
and the team succumbed to the Barts spin and
were all out for 186 in the 40th over.
Tight bowling by Eastland and Hobbs res-
tricted Barts in their scoring. An excellent
spell by Shaw applied a further brake but all
their wickets were still intact and the situation
began to look ominous. Barts run rate began
to increase. A couple of wickets taken by Tear
proved to be only minor setbacks, and the •
game began to swing back towards Barts. An
excellent piece of fielding by Bostock on the
cover point boundary switched the game
back in IC's favour until a whirlwind 30 by a
Barts batsmen (?) sealed the match.
Thus IC lost by 6 wickets, a margin that did
not reflect the true'nature of the match.
Will the Umpire fart?
Will Harlington ever be usedfor test'matches
again?
Does anybody care? ,
Read next week's exciting episode of 'The
Cricket Club Saga'.
CAN V00 SPARE
£9.50 FOR
MY DINNER ?
FELIX Dinner
2 December 1983
7:00 for 7:30pm Union Dining Hall
Guest speaker: Michael White The Guardian
ALL WELCOME!
Tickets from the FELIX Office.
UNION BAR
NOVEMBER'S GUEST ALE
BODDINGTONS
TUESDAY 15 NOVEMBER
BODDINGTONS PROMOTION
50p/pint
CHRISTMAS HALL DINNER
Tuesday, 13 December 1983
£8 per head (student rate)
Dress: Dinner Jacket or Dark Lounge4Suit
Bookings open 12.00 Tuesday, 8th November
Close 12.00 Friday, 2nd Decembejr
Bookings from the Union Office^
FELIX I Friday, 11 November, 1983
Free Theatre Tickets!
• for
OUTLAW
Michael Abbensetts
(author of Empire Road)
Tuesday 15 November 8pm
The Arts Theatre
Great Newport Street
London WC2
Free tickets available from the Box Office until 7:45p
Subject to availability.
^ • • • • • • • • • P a g o

