• Gaynor Lewis
Gaynor Lewis seems to be enjoying her year as President. She hasn't
made any awful cock-ups; in fact she has done nothing this year at all!
The day-to-day functions of a sabbatical officer don't take up
anything like forty hours a week. The sabaticals are expectd to have
their own initiatives and carry them through. Sean Davis has done
this admirably. He performs his tasks as Hon Sec competently and
has also rescued IC Rag from the depths of bankruptcy to something
very worthwhile. Meanwhile Gayrior spends all her spare time sip-
ping Union sherry, working out seating plans for formal dinners.
Gaynor is possibly the worst President we have ever had in terms of
negotiating with College administration. A number of top people in
College have intimated to me that Gaynor is very naive on College
committees. These hard bitten professionals walk all over her. She
has already practically given away the Union Building and settled for
the cramped basement in Southside. The Southside expansion has
now become the Southside move. If you were expecting any
improvements in refectory services or better accommodation forget
about them for this year.
The last Council meeting only lasted half an hour. The members of
Council were quite happy to acc»i-. that iaynor had done nothing to
earn the £3,000 salary she gets, .vlaybe they'll take notice when they
hear of the size of next year's College subvention to the Union—when
they hear that the grants of their clubs, societies and CCUs are to be
slashed. I hope they give her a harder time at the next Council
meeting.
Porn
I was surprised to hear that the motion against any pornographic acts
on College premises was passed at Tuesday's U G M . I wonder if this
will mean that Gaynor won't be allowed to wear those awfully tight
jeans she has been wearing recently?
I am suspicious of any action which restricts freedom of action or
expression. With the exception of the horrible films shown on RSM's
porno night most of the attractions are good dirty harmless fun.
Anyway I'm sure the Mines block vote will reverse the decision at the
next U G M .
FELIX
If anyone is interested in working for F E L I X , particularly writing
news and feature articles then they should come and see me Monday
or Tuesday lunch time.
Credits
Lynne James, Jon Jones, Guy Riddihough, Simon Neild, Diane Love, the
Sherfield Mole, Hugh Southey, David Rowe, Peter Rodgers, J Martin
Taylor, Tony Atkins, Ulysses, Steve Brann, Matt Fawcett, Andreas,
John McMasters, Steve Bishop, John Scott, Rolf, Phil, Maz, Pete and
the Sherfield Print Unit.
Pallab. Ghosh
More exams at Primelia College
You may remember my friends Alan, Barry, Chris,
Diana and Elaine who got their exam results at the
beginning of term. Well they've just had five more
tests in maths, structures, hydraulics, thermodyna-
mics and electricity. They were ranked from 1 to5 in
each subject, 1 for the best, 5 for the worst. The
numbers of the ranks were added up, and the person
with the lowest total would come top overall. No two
ranks were equal in any one subject, and no two
totals were the same.
1. Everybody came top in one subject.
2. Everybody came fifth in one subject apart from
Alan. Elaine came fifth in two subjects.
3. In the maths test Elaine came above Diana, but
below Alan.
4. In one subject, they finished in alphabetical order
(Alan first).
5. In thermodynamics, Diana finished first and
Barry last.
6. Barry's total was 15.
7. Elaine finished first in electricity.
8. If the rankings that Chris and Elaine got in the
structures exam were swapped over, Elaine would
have come top overall and Chris last.
9. Diana came second and Alan third in structures.
10. Diana came fourth in maths.
11. Barry did better in electricity than he did in
sructures.
12. Chris finished above Alan in electricity.
What order did they finish in?
Good luck, everybody.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the FELIX
Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday please. £5 prize
from Mend-a-Bike for randomly selected winning
entry.
Last Week's Solution
I thought I'd been rather*hard on you up till now, so I
decided to gjve you an easier one. However, when I
was making it up, I didn't realise quite how easy it
was. Despite gremlins getting in again and omitting
(x+z) from the end of the clue for 7 across, I was still
inundated with correct answers. 78 people got it
right and the randomly selected winner was Alastair
Macleod, Elec Eng 1.
After this puzzle and the one about making 82, I
received entries from some people who claimed I
was setting too many mathematical problems, "the
sort of thing mathematicians cut theirteeth on". This
criticism was probably based on the assumption that
I am a mathematician, and though I proDably am at
heart, I am studying engineering.
The reason that I'm setting mathematical prob-
lems like these is because they're based on funda-
mental mathematics and more fun to do for the
majority of people then any puzzle based on prin-
ciples of engineering. If those who think I'm being
too mathematical would like to give me constructive
criticism, and say what they'd like instead, I'd be
grateful.
The answer should have been x=11, y=7, z=6.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit Prince Consort Rd SW7
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager;:PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSouthey Copyright hLLI\ I fSJ

