10 Clubs and Societies
OSC Soccer Tournament
Last year's champions, the Pakistan team,
played last week and they were on top form.
They beat the Lebanese 7-3 in a hard fought
contest. Can they win the tournament again this
year? They are certainly looking impressive,
despite their poor heading ability!
The Lebanese, in their game against the
Japanese, started off the match with a goal in
under three seconds. They outplayed the
Japanese and won in convincing style.
The Pakistan team also beat the Japanese, but
despite their failures, the Japanese, I think,
enjoyed the afternoon more than the other
teams.
The quarter-finals will be played this
Wednesday, so if your society managed to get
through to this stage of the competition, please
come down and support them.
Wednesday 16th February
3.00pm Indian vs African Caribbean
3.45pm Cypriot vs Lebanese
4.15pm Pakistan vs Iranian
5.00pm Singapore vs Malaysian
Teams are required to be at the football court on
Sydney Street and ready to start at the times
stated.
Final Group Tables
W D L F A Pts
Group 1
Indian
Malaysian
French
Group 2
Cypriot
Iranian
Mauritian
Group 3
Pakistan
Lebanese
Japan
16
16 0
2 2 0 0 18 7 6
2 1 0 1 14 9 3
2 0 0 2 1 17 0
2 2 0 0 20 3 6
2 1 0 1 15 7 3
2 0 0 2 0 25 0
Group 4
Singapore 2 2 0 0 17 0 6
African Caribbean 2 1 0 1 5 6 3
Sri Lankan 2 0 0 2 0 16 0
Results - Group 4
African Caribbean 5 - 0 Sri Lankan
Sri Lankan 0-11 Singapore
Singapore 6 - 0 African Caribbean
TWF Brazilian
Carnival Is
A Success
Third World First's second Brazilian Carnival
Night was a great success again, with the Union
packed with smooth Latin dancers and carnival
fanatics pulsating the night away to the sound of
Viramundo, an eight piece salsa band.
Thanks to everyone who came, we hope you
enjoyed it. Thanks to everyone in T W F for the
organisation, especially Lucy for the financial
side and dance organisation. Thanks to SCC
Exec, the Union, W L C , Dramsoc, Da Vinci's,
Jazz & Rock Soc, Sophia for the disco, the
bloke who did the lights and of course IC Dance
Club (amazing dancing!!).
We raised a lot of cash for the Brazilian
Rubber Tappers Union, who are working to
preserve the rainforests in Brazil. Due to the
success of the Night we will probably make this
a regular thing, so see you next year!
Third World First
are supporting an IMF/World Bank
50th Anniversary Campaign
Day Of Action
More details on the Diary page
College Thinks Badminton 'Lacks Prestige'
The Badminton Club used to be one of the few
sports clubs that had facilities on site in South
Kensington. Not any more! Not only has the
volleyball court been demolished leaving us with
insufficient court space for U A U matches, but
on top of that we have lost almost all our court
time in the Great Hall. This has resulted in a
drastic loss of membership and almost complete
lack of practice.
Extremely worried, we went to the con-
ference office to point out that they are wiping
the Badminton Club out of existence. After
continuous phoning for a few days, Anne Kemp
from the Conference Office finally agreed to a
meeting. She assured us that she 'really wanted
to help us', only to follow up five minutes later
with 'I'm intending to stop badminton from
using the Great Hall permanently'. Her reasons
for this are simply 'badminton is not prestigious
enough - I want more prestigious events to take
place in the Great Hall' and 'you don't bring in
any money'.
The Union's attitude to us has been one of
'there is nothing we can do'. We have been
given the use of St Mary's courts over at
Paddington on Saturday and Sunday mornings -
hardly an option for most people. Training after
College hours is convenient for everyone while
many students go away or return home at
weekends and others face a long journey to train
for a few hours. I have lost track of the number
of people who have expressed an interest in
badminton only to be disappointed and say there
is no way they can train on a weekend morning.
What about Wednesday afternoons - the
sporting afternoon of the student week? Surely
we should be able to play then. We have been
given just two Wednesday afternoons in the
Great Hall this term and the grand total of one
evening in the Great Hall for the whole of
January.
Two years ago we had the Great Hall
Monday and Friday evenings for anyone to play,
Tuesday evenings and Wednesday afternoons
for team practice and Thursday evenings for
matches. Last year they cut down these sessions
but we could still rely on three or four sessions a
week. Now we can't even get enough sessions to
arrange all our matches! If this continues we will
be thrown out of the leagues for not completing
enough matches. All our teams used to be in the
First Division of the Hammersmith Leagues but
now we are currently in the Second Division in
the men's and ladies and in the First Division in
the mixed.
Compare also this year's U A U results with
previous years' standards. Two years ago the
ladies team got to the semi-finals of the U A U ,
last year to the quarter finals of the U A U . This
year all three teams - Ladies, Men's lsts and
Men's 2nds went out in the first round of the
U A U . The team has hardly changed but the
amount of practice we were given has. Only a
few weeks ago in Felix Charles Leary expressed
disappointment with this years U A U results and
said he was trying to increase practice times for
clubs. Maybe he has, but not for badminton.
Is Imperial College actually concerned with
its students? Sport has never been a priority of
Imperial College but now badminton is not even
'prestigious' enough to gain access to the
training facilities available in College. If this
goes on I'll be extremely surprised to find an
Imperial College Badminton Club in a couple of
years time. Watch out Orchestra, Choir and any
other clubs that use the Great Hall or any other
sites in College, you may not be considered
'prestigious' enough either.
Wendy Yates
Captain, Badminton Club
Club and society events for next week are listed in the Diary

