14 Reviews
aaas
Falling off the Map
by Pico Iyer
Last Rights
by Tim Sebastian
This is a highly commendable spy thriller from
the ex-Moscow correspondent for the BBC. A
fleeting glance behind the Iron Curtain - a
glance that reveals some of the many secret
workings of the ex-Soviet Union.
An intricate network of multiple rounds of
human betrayal expertly woven to share with
the outside world the unpublicised realities of
the Cold War. It is being implied that many
governments are guilty of anonymous roles in
fuelling the Communism that they were
apparently trying to put an end to. A number of
startling facts and even more chilling
possibilities are captured by Tim Sebastian.
Very aptly titled Last Rights, the book
follows the life of an Englishman born of
Russian parents whose roots reach deeper than
he could have every imagined. An Englishman
until his parents' past catches up with him, he is
forced to choose between "the death of a
principle and the life of a human being". Read it
yourself to find out what he chooses.
Last Rights - words for thought.
Ziegler
Published by: Bantam Books
Price: £4.99
joy11m
joy
The Pelican
Brief
by John Grisham
Two of the nine Supreme Court justices in the
United States are killed on the same night. Is it
an unfortunate coincidence or a conspiracy? As
the FBI investigation begins, a law student,
Darby Shaw develops her own theory.
The Pelican Brief, as it becomes known is
passed to the FBI by her boyfriend and Law
Professor, Thomas Callaham. Within days of the
document being read in Washington, she
survives a car bomb that kills her boyfriend and
she is forced to go on the run. While evading
her unknown pursuers, she attempts to unravel
the conspiracy.
This book is excellent. The plot initially
moves along slowly as the characters are
developed, but the momentum rapidly builds
until you are totally absorbed by the plot. Don't
delay, buy it and read it today! John Grisham is
also the author of The Firm and The Pelican
Brief will be released as a film on 25th February.
Blodwin
Published by: Arrow
Price: £4.99
Another travel book is not immediately what
springs to mind as the greatest need of modern
literature, although it ranks higher than Judith
Krantz's 'Scruples 2' I suppose. There is always
the possibility of being patronising when you are
the writer who can describe over 200 years of a
country's history in a little over twenty three
pages and still make it home in time for tea. Iyer
seems to make his job harder by operating under
the subtitle 'Some Lonely Places Of The
World', as he encompasses his eight choices.
The list, for completion, is: North Korea,
Argentina, Cuba, Iceland, Bhutan, Vietnam,
Paraguay and finally Australia. All-in-all this is
a wide ranging bunch and perhaps that's part of
his problem. They are just too diverse; my front
room can be quite lonely on occasions, too. You
get the feeling that the solitary journalist
packing around the globe is never too far from
maudlin friendlessness.
Despite all this, Iyer's writing style is
unconventional enough to make a book, albeit a
light weight one, out of his experiences. The
Argentinean chapter is a good example. He
Different people have different ideas of Utopia.
The Status Civilization, set mainly upon the
planet Omega, could be considered as one such
idea, if you are, or have the viewpoint of, a
rather nasty, highly trained ninja who has
several gold medals for sharpshooting and a
penchant for general killing. The ideals of the
society are clear. Kill or be killed. With each
kill, your social status increases (and the number
of people interested in your demise rises
proportionally).
The first few chapters were muddled and
generally confusing but once over these initial
hurdles the story unfurls its wings and flies on
faster and faster, dragging you along with it.
However, as you near the end, the dragon-like
novella pauses before finally smacking you hard
with its 'tail'. It is the sort of book which, once
finished and put down, leaves you thinking hard.
Witty, containing several new ideas and
generally a good read.
concentrates on the still strong polo driven
aristocrats who live in a decaying opulence of
100% inflation and consider themselves too
good, even for Europe. Yet Argentina has been
covered before by such writers as V.S.Naipaul,
as Iyer himself recognises, and the feeling
comes on strong that he is acting as an appetiser
to more weightier tomes. Similarly Vietnam,
Cuba and North Korea are not exactly virgin
ground.
For the lonely, Iceland's pallid streets appear
to be the best. Not only for the violent mood
swings induced by the varying seasons, nor the
thousand years of Nordic inversion, just the
chilly silence of a wasteland. As Douglas Adams
could have written, there is one chapter in the
Natural History of Iceland called, 'Concerning
Snakes'. In its entirety it says,"There are no
snakes to be met throughout the whole island".
Mostly harmless, except for the bite of gentle
irony.
Tintin
Published by: Black Swan
Price: £5.99
And now to the second story in the book,
Mindswap. I remember being taught that a story
should have a beginning, a middle and an end.
Mindswap seems to consist of all three, but in no
particular order. The story is that a homeboy
wants to travel, so he swaps his mind with that
of an alien for what he thinks will be a short
holiday. The alien then disappears with his
body. Naturally, the hero wants his body back
and so chases the alien across space,
mindswapping several times on the way. The
story chops and changes like a fly going from A
to B, never following one course for too long
before turning in a totally new direction. It was
hard to follow and the ending fizzled out like a
wet firework. After the first story which showed
the author's talent, Mindswap is poor.
Ginster
Published by: Legend
Price: £4.99
The Status Civilization /
Mindswap
by Robert Sheckley
Sample Italian delights on page 11

