Reviews 15
"Whoever Saves one Life, Saves the World Entire" - The Talmud
Schindler's List
Starring: Liam Neeson, Ben Kingsley
Director: Steven Spielberg
I feel dwarfed by this film. Here I might claim
kinship with Spielberg. Imagine undertaking the
portrayal of even the tiniest detail from the vast
and unrelenting landscape of the Holocaust.
This was probably why it took him ten years
to finally make Schindler's List: not because he
sensed his need to mature but because he was
scared. Fascist revisionism seeks to bleach the
past with its white stained fictions; the
controversy over restoring sites like Auschwitz
rages angrily through Europe and Israel. David
Irving and his nazi ilk could conceivably claim
that the 'lie' continues and this film is its latest
incarnation. I myself have no problem with
questioning the past - for that reason I think
Schindler's List is a triumph. The idiots swayed
by revisionism question nothing; simply hearing
what they like. But for each new generation the
past is ever older and the question they must
answer isn't 'did it happen?' but 'how could it?'.
How is this achieved? Principly, through the
portrayal of individuals. This three hour black
and white epic explores the Holocaust by
concentrating on one man, Oskar Schindler. A
German industrialist and war profiteer, he used a
displaced and desperate Jewish workforce in his
factory, where they were well-treated and safe
from the work camps. But the Nazis' 'final
solution' forced Schindler to play a dangerous
game. He sought to save his staff by bribing the
Nazis to transport them to a new factory in his
home town. He had allowed himself to see the
Jews as people, to love them.
This is shown most forcefully in a scene from
the liquidation of a work camp - the survivors
have been packed into train carriages to
Auschwitz and in the sweltering heat the
German officials dine by the railside, sweating
I1
s
1
1
A Bronx Tale
Starring: Robert De Niro, Chazz Palminteri
Director: Robert De Niro
A strange cookie this, so overlaiden with
unnecessary pathos. Robert De Niro looms large,
directing debut and still acting too. But in both
cases he is largely anonymous. The byline reads:
"A devoted father battles local crime boss for the
life of his son." Baloney. That's just the facade.
In fact, this film has as many inconsistencies as
De Niro had bullet holes in 'Godfather 2'.
There's also jumps in continuity, airbrushed
violence, simple moralising, and yet this remains
a hugely satisfying film.
De Niro plays a hard working Italian-
and swearing at the sun. Schindler, breaking
under the sight before him, arranges for the
carriages to be liberally hosed down, yet must
act as if his motives were commendably sadistic.
It is a euphoric moment, even in its despair,
(they will still die) because one man dares to
stand against the many, banded together to
become less than men, a kind of anti-synergy.
Still more important is Speilberg's treatment
of the Jews. A s they line up en masse for
classification, their typed names appear on
screen. Again and again, little vignettes of
people, faces in the crowd, trying to live and
dying. A breathtaking moment: Spielberg shows
mass chaos as the ghetto is 'cleansed', at the
same time one small girl is picked out in red.
The message: the many are made of ones.
Melodrama is nonexistent, the film is almost
cold and the effect is claustrophobic. I say cold
but the film is speckled with humourous
warmth. This is deliberate; one cannot help
smiling as a boy searches for a hiding place and
is continually thwarted by others in residence.
He jumps down a latrine and even there dwell
three children, picked out in a pool of light. He
American busdriver on the near side of the
tracks, trying to bring up his son Calogero
properly. But Calogero is drawn to the shiny
hoods, crackling money and a surrogate father in
the figure of local big boss, Sonny.
The ever-present violence is more than petty
but is somehow embraced in a way which limits
its effect. It can still be sickening, as when a
group of Hell's Angels are bloodied and torn in
slow motion to the swagger of the Beatles'
'Come Together'. "Hey come on flat top he goes
grooving up slowly..." as noses fall and baseball
bats bluster; then everyone gets up and walks
achingly away. Smells like the A-Team are back
in town. Even the climactic racial scenes are
diluted by an all-the-lads-together feeling. It's
not portrayed as nasty and murderous, just the
over zealous idealism of youth.
stands outside them. "You're not with us." Mob
horror again. Cold as life is. Emotion comes
from within us, the world is black and white.
Colour enters a packed train carriage as the
camera pulls in from the outside world to the
occupants (their colour, their life), then it pans
back outside to grey.
Traditional rant? Liam Neeson is
unobtrusively convincing, Ralph Fiennes a
detestable evil as the sadistic Goeth, Ben
Kingley's Itzak Stern a heartbreaking
pragmatist's hero; every one of the cast performs
admirably. The movie is technically flawless.
Spielberg uses his past to create an ugly first
hour, Schindler dancing and entertaining and
then the music's turned off and Goeth is
shooting people for fun from his villa. Spielberg
enters unknown territory and maps it expertly. It
takes a modern directorial master to stomp over
the Art School and take this, the twentieth
century's principle lesson, to its pupils. It will
win Oscars. It may save lives. Possibly the
greatest film ever made.
Owain Bennallack
On general release today.
The direction is swift and steady, maybe
slightly overplayed in places but there are some
excellent laughs. Music is the canvass on which
scenes are laid: the film's stuffed full of
authentic Do-Wop, played whenever there's no
dialogue, and all together it works. Maybe the
secret is that De Niro resists going for a Spike
Lee shot at filming racial ghettos.
At the end, this could be anyone's story.
That's why the film is good. I don't need to
identify with Calogero, or the problems of the
Bronx in the early 60's. It's a film which doesn't
need to be big, heavy and scary, and is only
slightly flawed by being all three at some point.
It can just be an act, part of a modern
storyteller's tradition, ok...just a bronx tale.
Tintin
On general release today
Next Week: Decca's series of music banned by the Nazis

