Reviews 17
Tindersticks,
Drugstore
LA2
Sad to say there was only one band performing
tonight. All hearts may well have been waiting
for the lounge lizard charms of the Tindersticks,
for whatever reason they were happy to remain
within their own lackadaisical box. But
Drugstore had enough kicks for two.
You could see the gleam of ambition about
the way they just cracked into the opening
numbers. No banter, that comes with
complacency. Between songs, Isabel swigged
deeply from a bottle of vitriolic red which
remained at her feet. As frontspiece she is faintly
exotic, fairly tiny and with a growl like a
Monday morning.
Intoxication kicks into the audience, some of
whom even begin to nods their heads. That's
more movement than will be generated later.
Drugstore are a band who still want to play, who
feel like they're doing something being on stage.
They wanna be stars, they will get their wish.
The Red House Painters cry through me in
my fogging bathroom mirror, sulking and
mouthing to the torture of recognition - I don't
want to see Koscelik banter with the crowd. No;
I don't want to see him exist. And I don't want
to see Greg Dulli advised by a roadie to hold his
cigarette a little more misogynistically or Mazzy
Star shy in Hope Sandoval's languid hollow.
Just like I don't want to hear Anne Franks read
her diary at the Bloomsbury Theatre or to watch
Shelley swoon on a B B C 2 late show.
/ don't want to see lead
man Stuart acting the
fat and boozy old
crooner -1 want to see
him a wasted man
The Tindersticksl I don't want to see lead
man Stuart acting the fat and boozy old crooner -
I want to see him a wasted man, a bar act,
twenty years the wrong side of the N M E covers,
a few songs of glorious memory before he falls
into a pool of his vomit. But our fast-forward
culture, (youth on a Warholian pedestal), thinks
it knows best. The old days are here. The Sticks
are now and we must imagine a little missing.
So they stumble onstage two decades early
and Stuart's already loaded. There's the brief
communication of real musicians at work and
then the first strings of 'Patchwork' are woven
into melody and sent across the packed,
murmuring congregation. All old boys with their
hero's fringe and insolence...could it be
exclusively a male phenomenon, this city's
sickness they diagnosed on their eponymous
album? Would they cure us?
The next cortege of songs are new and old
and not on the album. Sing 'Marbles', shouts a
twiglet. Nah - too obvious, says Stuart grinning
at his own drunken 'wit'. Then the album comes
thick and fast: 'Blood', 'Dyed' and 'Whiskey
and Water' and about now it suddenly makes
sense. The stupid venue with it's disco mirrors,
the adulation, the earnest craft of the band and
we're going somewhere, if only on the Circle
line. The album's cool but only now I
understand. Seeing them there, with all the
shameful genius of child prodigies or any of the
rest of the human race, more, too soon, then they
expected or deserved. See, losers don't win -
they become winners.
The encore is a fantastic 'Drunktank'. Stuart
grumbles and crows like some Camden Palace
Oscar Wilde, over lashings of soul, keyboards
and an electric violin. But aren't they unique...
And over. They sidle off without paying their
tab, no 'City Sickness' or 'Marbles'. A real
encore, said Guy later. Me hating them and
thinking they already have old classics.
Owain - Tindersticks Tintin - Drugstore
ICU Ents presents ALIS
T
A
I
R
atmosphere0 mcgowa
X J> star of Spitting Image,
Edinburgh Festival,
& Acclaimed Impressionist
^ & support
W
% / ™ ^ Tickets: £3 (adv) £3.50 (door)
V l l W f T / ^ £2 (ents card)
£1 (disco after show)
Numbers limited...
available from Union Office
Fri 18th Feb D i s c o t i i 2am,
Doors 9pm Bar 'til lam

