18 Feature
i _ 3 < x £ e y
As the sun rose higher, the rays slanted down,
over the back of the building opposite, and
entered his room. He looked up from the papers
and books on his desk, where he'd been working
all night. The morning sky glowed a burnished
steel blue, cool, distant and indifferent. It
promised to be one of those crisp, sunlit winter
days he normally liked so much.
This is ridiculous, he thought. A few hours'
work has taken me all weekend. Shaking his
head, he returned to his work. About an hour
later, he stood up and stretched. That was it,
finished, another fraction of a course unit
towards the degree. He had time for a shower, a
shave and breakfast
before making it to the
tutorial. He headed for the
bathroom.
Over breakfast, Sinatra
came on the radio with a
song about how
unforgettable someone
was. Muttering "bloody hell", he switched it off.
The sudden pain slowly subsided into a dull
throbbing in the background as he finished
breakfast and started to set off for College.
He regained consciousness, realising he had
dozed off in the middle of the tutorial. Alarmed,
he looked around, if anyone had noticed, they
weren't showing it. He glanced at his watch:
relief, he'd only been unconscious for a few
minutes, if that. Brace yourself, there's certainly
worse to come.
With the lunch break to spend before the
afternoon lectures, he headed for the dining hall
where he knew his friends would be gathering
for lunch, seeking the comfort of the small,
familiar group. He found them at a table next to
a window.
"Hey look who's here! Where have you been
all weekend? You look like you haven't slept in
three days!", " Hi guys, the weekend was a bit of
a disaster, major work crisis, you know how it
goes." The sunlight bathed everyone, mak-ing
highlights dance in their hair as they talked and
laughed. It was a time to be savoured, and he felt
his spirits rising.
Then, without warning, all hopes he had of
regaining some kind of composure were dashed.
There is, then, to be no mercy, no quarter given.
She greeted everybody as she made her way
down the table. Looking up at her in stunned
disbelief, his eyes met hers as she included him
in the general greeting. Her irises shone like
pools of sunlit honey as she sat down almost
directly opposite him. Her presence exploded
inside him and reverberated along every fibre of
his being, with all the power, beauty and majesty
of the opening chords of a symphony.
It was the last thing he expected. Her arrival
pleasantly surprised everyone. Long time no see
and all that. Yes, she'd been rather busy all
week, lunch breaks? Forget it! He was alarmed
to notice one of his closest friends casting a
quick, searching glance at him. Christ on a
Suddenly, she turned
back and looked at him
directly...
Harley Davidson. He fixed his eyes on his plate
and attacked the food. No use, amazing what
resistance a College dining hall meal can put up
sometimes.
A conversation started nearby on the
prospects of the coming motor racing season.
Thank God: a way out. The next half hour was
all Formula One and who was probably driving
for which team and why and what the new cars
were going to be like and active suspension and
traction control and aerodynamics and all the
rest of the whole pointless multimillion-dollar
circus. It was pathetic, but it was all he could do.
Inside him, all was in turmoil. He was torn
between the intensely
painful beauty of her all-
conquering presence in
his soul, and his despair
of ever sharing that
beauty with her. He
could never be to her
what she was to him, that
much she had made clear. What to do? She
pervaded everything: his work, the books he
read, the music that used to be such a
consolation. Now every jot of work he did, every
page he read, every note he heard was suffused
with her essence. There was no escape, no
sanctuary.
At last, he heard her saying she had to go. All
this time they had sat almost facing each other
and hardly exchanged a word. It had once been
so different. He grieved his loss. The door to a
world of beauty and truth, of love and happiness
had once stood ajar before him and his heart had
echoed with a wordless song of joy, wonder and
longing before the lovely vision. And barely had
he taken the first fearful step but the door
inevitably swung shut, the song silenced, the
sweet dawn-light snuffed out. Nevermore.
He watched as she stood and said she had to
go. He silently raised his hand, but she turned
away. He looked on, hand raised, as she walked
away. Then suddenly, she turned back and
looked at him directly. He met her gaze, his
hand still raised and her eyes again reflected the
sunlight. For an instant, he felt as if the gulf that
had opened between them had vanished, the
chasm bridged, the door opened again.
For an instant she stood motionless, and he
felt as if in that instant, that he was powerless to
once more try to put in words, gathered strength
from the light that shone in her eyes and jumped
across, across from his heart through the space
between them and into those huge eyes that now
seemed to occupy his whole field of vision, his
entire world.
Then she smiled, she smiled with her eyes
and in her eyes he could see she knew, she knew
but couldn't share, she couldn't share and could
only leave, leave him outside the door to her
heart that was now closed to him forever.
She turned away again and left. He still
looked on, his hand still raised. The world had
suddenly emptied.
There was only one thing left to do now.
Though the sun shone, it was bitterly cold on
the balcony nine floors up. A n aeroplane flew
overhead, glistening metal bubble in the sky. He
could see another three further away. He walked
to the edge.
In his hand he had the letters, all of them, the
ones he had written and never sent. His eyes
lingered on the words for a while. The lines
swam and shimmered as his eyes watered,
maybe it was the cold.
Slowly and deliberately, almost tenderly, he
began to tear the pages. He threw the pieces to
the wind. They pirouetted crazily in the sunlit
space. They looked like a swarm of butterflies
flying across the space between the buildings.
Look, my thoughts can fly like butterflies.
They're the most beautiful thoughts I've ever
made. If only you'd share them, I could fly to
you with them, even if you stood on that roof
over there. How did that joke go? Two people on
opposite sides of a drop like this one. One of
them says, look, I've got a torch, I'll shine a
light beam across the gap, you could walk across
on it. The other answers, you don't fool me,
you'll only turn it off when I'm halfway across
and let me drop.
You shone a light beam across at me. You
never expected me to walk it, but I did. I loved
you and trusted you and walked the beam and
didn't fall, I floated, I soared, held up by the
light you shone at me. You thought I'd never do
it, nobody in their right mind would try to walk
on a lightbeam across an abyss, but suddenly
there I was halfway across and you turned off
the light.
You turned off the light, you had to keep me
away no matter what, but look! I'm not falling, I
can fly, I can do anything, I can tear my heart
into little strips and throw it to the wind, I can
even just let you turn and walk away because I
love you.
George
Part 4 of Cracking Cryptic Crosswords is on the back page

