Imperial College Union 19
Handbook Editor Wanted - And We'll Pay!
Fancy editting a book that is read by over one
thousand students? Fancy getting paid for it?
Fancy being Handbook Editor?
While the elections for all of the other Union
posts and officers happen next month, we have
to elect one right now at the next Union General
Meeting on 25th February (1pm, Ents Lounge).
It's the post of Handbook Editor. This post
involves working from now, gathering a team of
helpers around you and working with Union
Officers, Sabbaticals and Staff to produce the
Union Handbook. Don't panic! Whilst it may
seem a big job, there is a lot of time to do it in.
and the work you do over the summer is paid.
You have to gather and write material, search
for advertising revenue, chase clubs and
societies for submissions, collect photographic
material, the full monte really. Y o u are
responsible for the creation of the Handbook
from the conceptual ideas, all the way to where
it goes out in the post to all of next year's new
students.
Sounds interesting? To stand, sign up outside
the Union Office. You need a proposer and ten
seconders. Come into the Union Office and ask
for details if you want to know more. Also, if
you want, get the view of one of the past editors,
speak to Beccy, the Felix Editor. Pop into the
Felix Office, Beit Quad and ask her for her
views.
So, How Do I Vote?
The Election
Papers Are Up
If you are interested in or are going to stand for
a sabbatical post, you have until next Friday,
25th February, to get yourself proposed and
seconded. Remember that the papers are
opposite the Union Office, 1st Floor, Union
Building.
When you go to sign up, make sure you get a
copy of the election rules and publicity
procedures. Remember, you cannot put up any
publicity until the papers come down. If anyone
wants any more information about a particular
post, talk to the relevent sabbatical.
First things first, you need your swipe card. No
swipe card? Is your swipe card knackered? Well,
you can get a new one from Security in the
Sherfield building. In past years, Union cards
were punched to show that you voted (and to
stop you voting twice); this year we're using
swipe cards.
Those kind people in Security have come up
with a read-write machine which electronically
marks your swipe card to show that you have
voted. Don't worry, it won't show how you
voted, the machine merely 'tags' the card to
ensure you cannot vote twice, just like
physically punching a hole. This system is a lot
tighter and less prone to abuse than punching
holes in Union cards.
So i f you haven't got a swipe card, get it
replaced now. If you've gone on to a new course
and your card says that it has expired, don't
worry. If your card is still working, the machine
can tell so.
Remember, when you go to vote, you're
name is checked off against the student register
to make sure you are eligible to vote. If you are
a student at Imperial College, you're on that
register, so don't worry.
UNION GENERAL MEETING
Friday February 25th
Union Ents Lounge
Deadline for Motions:
Today, Friday 18th
( M o t i o n s t o b e h a n d e d i n t o t h e U n i o n O f f i c e , 6 p m )

