Opinion 21
Open Letter to IC Students R.E.S.P.E.C.T.
Although the community at Imperial College is
known for its cosmopolitan nature, certainly in
comparison with other academic institutions in
Britain, this advantageous position has, for too
long, been neglected, and even ignored by the
students. At lectures and tutorials, we find
ourselves working next to, and with, students
from the far reaches of the world. But do we
ever stop to think of the wealth of knowledge we
could harness by displaying an interest in the
others' cultures and backgrounds? I suggest that
for the vast majority of us, the answer is no. At
6pm, the home community, and its overseas
counterparts part company. And except for a
club activity, or, in the case of first years, a hall
outing, will rarely meet again until lectures the
following morning. The divide is further
illustrated by the complete lack of presence of
overseas students at evening Union events.
This divide, I would suggest, will always
exist. It is the nature of different communities to
remain independent. However, I feel that this
stage of our life is probably the best moment for
understanding to develop. Due to advances in
technology, the world is becoming a smaller and
smaller place to live in. In a few years, a lot of
us will find ourselves conducting business with
the members of other nations. The new nature of
Britain itself, means that even i f you are
working at a local level, you are bound to have
dealings with members of other communities.
Surely we should not lose this opportunity,
while we are all on a level playing field, to begin
the process of learning about one another.
Where this whole argument is leading to, is
the opportunity we have with our overseas
societies, to begin this process. The Overseas
Students' Committee has 26 constituent
societies representing a vast cross-section of the
cultures found on our planet. Several of these
societies have, in recent past organised events.
These are not just, as the popular image seems to
be, for the benefit of the students from that
cultures, but are also aimed at the student
community in general. A good example is the
recent 'Swing Singapore' event, organised by
the Singapore Society. The exhibition put on in
the Great Hall, was most impressive, and, was
certainly as professionally put together as many
museum displays. The level of effort put in was
not just so that Singaporean students could see
what they already knew, but was rather more
aimed at the student in general. However, as far
as I could see, despite high levels of advertising,
very few members of the general student
community showed an interest.
All overseas student societies are open to all
members of the Union. I would encourage you
all to take an interest. Furthermore, the most
important event involving the overseas
community, and certainly the largest student
event since the Union Freshers' Fair at the start
of this year, is yet to occur. International Nite
'94 is due to take place on Friday 4th March.
Most of the overseas student societies will be
taking part, be it in the International Food Fair,
or the Cultural Show. Contrary to general
opinion, this is not just an overseas affair, but
rather, an event for the whole College to enjoy.
If you are a home student, who has until now,
not taken any interest in overseas events, then I
would particularly encourage you to come
along. Tickets will be on sale in the Union
Office, and in the Sherfield Foyer in the coming
weeks. I look forward to seeing you all then!
Mustafa Zakir Hussain
Chairman,
Overseas Students' Committee.
Dear Beccy,
It is a sad reflection of our society that we
seem to be running out of role-models. Integrity
is a dying maxim. Many people in occupations
which traditionally commanded respect and admi-
ration appear to be as fallible as the rest of us.
The media portrays the Royal Family as a
bunch of muppets and politicians as sexually-
perverse hypocrites. When you think of a Justice
of the Peace, do you not think of a plump ageing
gentleman more in touch with the ins and outs
of wig maintenance than the real world? What
of the law enforcers, the police? Reading the
paper the other day I was left with a sense, albeit
an illegitimate one, of the police being at best
ineffectual and at worst corrupt. Our religious
leaders, meanwhile, seem to be either condemn-
ing us to death or boring us to the same end.
Children growing up today must be more
disillusioned than ever especially with more
family units breaking up. Many youngsters
don't even respect their parents. So who should
they respect? According to Matt Bianco we
should respect ourselves and Aretha simply says
we should respect (just a little bit). The youth of
today are left with role-models who make music
or movies or who parade up and down cat-
walks. Should we respect someone for their
physical appearance? Of course not! But do we?
Respect is a precious commodity and it
should be exercised when we recognise great
wisdom or talent. But though I might go to a
Prince concert and buy the Purple Rain album, I
will certainly not purchase a pair of purple
platform shoes. If we could all aspire to achieve
the qualities of those people whom we recognise
to be the best holders of those virtues then
surely we are some way to being worthy of
other people's respect ourselves.
Yours respectfully,
S.A. Shaw, Mech Eng 3.
Wasteland Of Mindlessness - A Turning Point
Dear Felix,
Thank you for the opportunity to state a few
brief thoughts of mine about our College
regarding its academic atmosphere. As the title
shows, not only do I quite agree with the letter
of Marcus Alexander on the 21st Jan. issue, but I
would like to take his points a bit further.
"How do you like life at Imperial?" is a
standard question for me, posed to me by people.
My answer is the following: "Being a 2nd year
now I like my course and most of the subjects,
what I do mind is the total lack of a proper aca-
demical atmosphere meaning circulation of ideas
and a sense of the problems of the world we live
in". The answer to that from people being in
England longer than myself is that "this is the
case for all English universities". Well, I don't
know about the others' standards, I know about
my College. As Marcus Alexander points out:
"In a place which lays claim 7,000 of the highest
IQs in the country this is purely absurd."
I've come across this "what's that have to do
with your subject?" so many times. Almost every-
one I told about my involvement in the European
Youth Parliament or the Europe 2020 conference
reacted pretty much the same way. Later, of
course, one realises that the similarity between a
multi-interest person and a non-activist is the
same as the similarity between one's course and
an extra-curicullar activity: nothing at all! It
seems too many people think university is about
taking a degree through a continuous hangover
in order to make some money later on. The exact
impression that the JCR and Da Vinci's give a
stranger: life's about a pint of real ale and a
chicken'n'mushroom pie. This is probably a
low-level education, but certainly not paedia (sic).
I am quite glad, though, that I know of people
who detest this, and my message here is meant
for them. I would like to have everyone's recom-
mendations, opinions, proposals or comments
about the formation of a society that will go
beyond all the ICU clubs and societies, i.e. the
formation of the Youth of Europe society. I
conjure it up as a unique platform of discussion
and opinion-exchange about the past, present
and future of the Continent we live in, its
organised events ranging from speeches, lectures
and debates to art exhibitions, concerts and
away-breaks to European cities, thus encom-
passing interests in politics, economics, history,
music, philosophy and art. Although I have not
yet a definite idea about this, I consider it a very
serious and important blueprint for what will be
the most vibrant and multi-coloured society in
the College. Therefore I urge all my fellow
students interested to contact me and share their
views and ideas. M y e-mail address is kh@ee.ic.
ac.uk or you can drop a note in my pigeonhole.
I await the response of the student body.
Yours,
Kyriakos Hatzaras,
Greek Delegation for Europe 2020.
The deadline for letters is Monday, 6pm

