22 Opinion
Editorial
I could write volumes about the letter on the
opposite page entitled 'Media Virus', but I will
try to keep my response as brief as possible.
The media virus campaign seems to be the
reason behind Gareth Davies writing the letter.
When he brought the article in, it was not made
clear to me that it was an article to be printed in
that form; I thought it was more for my informa-
tion. When I looked at it, it was over a page of
solid text and I was not prepared to cut two
pages from the current edition of Felix in favour
of something which had been brought in after
the deadline and about which I knew nothing. I
did ask other people about this campaign and
everyone I spoke to had heard nothing, despite
the supposed extensive national media coverage.
I then handed the article to the Felix news team
who spent some time researching it and who
then reported on (see page 2 of this edition).
Mr Davies claims that my failure to print
anything on the campaign has stopped every
students at Imperial College from participating
and he asks what right I have to do this. Now,
correct me if I'm wrong, but I was elected as the
Felix Editor. I think this gives me the right to
choose what goes into an issue and what doesn't.
I don't believe that by not printing an article
people are prevented from participating in a
campaign.
There are other ways of getting messages
across to the students. If you are relying on a
page long article to inspire people to phone up
random organisations and rant on about student
issues, then I think you have been mislead.
People need direction and enthusiasm from
someone. They will very rarely do something off
their own back. Someone (maybe you, Gareth)
should be out there organising it, leafleting the
JCR and the Union, talking to people and getting
them motivated; getting the support of the Union
would be a start. They have a lot more power
than some people realise. Andy Wensley feels
that this isn't the best way of tackling the
problem. If he could be convinced, then he could
use his influence to maybe get some phones
brought in as has happened in Birmingham. Who
knows?
But instead of going out and doing things,
Gareth decided to complain about Felix. The
points he raises are ones that come up time and
time again, so once and for all, I'll try to set the
record straight on some of them.
Deadlines. These are set for a reason. It is
not, as Gareth seems to think, because it takes us
four days to typeset a page. It is in fact because
Felix is printed over three days, beginning on
Tuesday. We therefore need sufficient pages
completed by Tuesday morning. While it may
not take long to lay out a page, there are things
like the typing in of the articles (thank you for
being so thoughtful and bringing your letter in
on a disk, Gareth), proofing the page, correcting
the mistakes, dot screening photographs and so
on. All this takes time and as much as possible is
done by students who have other time commit-
ments such as their courses.
The main deadline is set at Friday to give
myself the time over the weekend to sort out the
page plan and decide what needs to be done by
whom and by when. I do not believe that setting
this deadline means I am sacrificing the quality
of the issue for the quality of the presentation.
However, I think presentation a very important.
If something looks bad, no-one is going to
bother to even pick it up. People are reading
Felix at the moment, every copy is picked up
and there are people complaining that there
aren't enough copies in some departments. I
doubt that someone is going around picking
them up and putting them straight in the bin.
Another point raised in Gareth's letter is that
of the content. Felix is a student newspaper, we
can't deny that. It relies on students to write and
produce it. It is also a society within ICU. It is
there to give students a chance to try something
different, something they haven't had a chance
to do before. We aren't there just for the
students, we are there for ourselves, too. This
may sound selfish, but like I said, we are a
society, too.
In order to get people involved, we include
reviews in the paper. It is an age old complaint
that there are too many reviews in Felix.
Reviewing gets people involved. It gives them a
chance to try something new. Felix needs volun-
teers and a lot of them are reviewers. The
reviews may be subjective opinions as Gareth
says and you may prefer to read reviews in the
'professional weekly periodicals', but they are
all opinions. Are the opinions of someone who
writes for Time Out any better than those of our
peers? A lot of the reviewers writing for Felix
know a hell of a lot about what they write about
and are, in my opinion more than qualified to
write a review.
I could continue to comment on the letter and I
have a lot more I could say, but space and time
are running out. If anyone else has questions or
comments, perhaps they can write to Felix and
I'll explain it to them. The deadline for letters is
Monday, 6pm.
The reason for this is to give people a chance
to comment on the issue that comes out on the
preceding Friday. If a letter is brought in late, it
will be fitted in i f there is the space. If they
include arrogant statements like "Your image in
the eyes of the students will be defined by the
effort you make to print this." I will not be
inclined to make the effort.
Sabbatical Election Candidates
You can place advertisements in Felix for the issues coming out on Friday 4th
March and Friday 11th March. Please ask in the Felix Office for more details.
Adverts are accepted on a first come first served basis.
The deadline for booking election publicity print work with the Print Unit is today.
Bookings made any later cannot be guaranteed to be completed by Friday, 6pm.
Credits
Typesetter:
Rose Atkins
Printer:
Andy Thompson
Business Managers:
Simon Govier
Steve Newhouse
Layout & Proofing:
Kin Wei Lee
Simon Shaw
Steven Newhouse
Features:
Owain Bennallack (Ed)
Min Kavlak
Marcus Alexander
Puzzles:
Sphinx
Catfish
Reviews:
Juliette Decock
Jon Jordan
Joe McFadden
Rekha Nayak
Photography:
Ivan Chan
Mike Chamberlain
News:
Mike Ingram
Lynn Bravey
Joe McFadden
Shaun Joynson
Andrew Tseng
Collators Last Week
Joe McFadden
Steve Newhouse
Tim St Clair
Penguin
Mike Ingram
Ivan Chan
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Milkround: Details of interviews are put up on
the notice board outside the Careers Office a
few days before the interview date. Don't panic
if you are too late to apply for the Milkround,
we will be write to several hundred employers
in May and you can apply for the remaining
vacancies when you have completed your finals.
Summer Vacation Training Opportunities are
now available on the new Database in the in the
Careers Office. Apply to UROP for research
opportunities
Penultimate Years: Start thinking about your
future. If you don't know what you want to do,
come to the Careers Office and try PROSPECT
- our computer careers guidance system.
'Improve Your Interview Skills' is a short
course for all on Wednesday 23rd February in
Huxley 344 from 2pm-4pm. Sign up in the
Careers Office.
For further information come to the Careers
Office, Room 310 Sherfield, open from 10am to
5.15pm Mon to Fri. A Duty Careers Adviser is
available for quick queries from 1pm-2pm daily.
Read the sabbatical candidate manifestoes in two week's time

