Opinion 23
Media Virus
Beccy,
I would be lying if I said that I have never
been angered or frustrated by something printed
in Felix. After all, what magazine or newspaper
can contain the views of such a wide cross-
section of communities and not rub some people
up the wrong way? No, I'm not angry with Felix
for printing something contentious. I'm not
angry because of a letter or article that is
fallacious or misleading. I'm furious, because as
editor of Felix, you have managed to reduce one
of the most interesting and perhaps acclaimed
student newspapers in the country to an irrel-
evant rag, devoid of news, filled with stuffing
instead of meat. I'm angry because of things
Felix isn't printing, not because of what it is.
What do you think your role as Felix Editor
is? In fact, what do you think the purpose of
Felix is? No, Beccy, it's not a chance for you to
produce a nice 'safe' format periodical for a
year. Nor is it your opportunity to get some
brownie points for your C V . Felix is there to
serve the students of Imperial College and so are
you. Felix should be the vehicle through which
students get to know about student issues: it
should be relevant. Felix should convey the
feelings and views of students: it should be
accessible. Felix should be a medium through
which students can explore relevant issues and
provoke discussion: it should be a platform.
At the moment Felix is none of these things.
It contains space-filling articles of little or no
relevance to current student issues; Reviews of
books, theatre and music(!), all of which are not
only extremely subjective opinions, but can be
found in myriad professional weekly periodicals
such as Time Out, and 'news' which is in fact
'olds' because it happened over a week ago.
Articles submitted to Felix are being rejected
and non-hack contributors are given pathetic,
whimsical excuses in return.
More specifically Beccy, I am astounded,
nearly to the point of speechlessness, by the
casual audacity of your decision not to print an
article I gave to you from the editor of Fuse, the
North London Universities' magazine concerning
the now snowballing Media Virus Campaign, a
student campaign using the humble telephone to
register student opinion with national media in
an attempt to raise the profile of student
objections to the government's proposals
affecting funding and student unions. It would
have informed IC students about the campaign
and how they could participate. Thanks to you,
they know nothing of the campaign and are
missing out on the opportunity to join a national
campaign fighting for their rights.
I was annoyed when you chose not to print it
last week, but knowing how difficult you seem
to find printing anything submitted less than a
week in advance, I was perhaps not surprised. I
was stunned when it didn't appear this week.
How dare you decide that the students of IC
don't need to know about this? Did you think it
was irrelevant? So irrelevant that 200
universities around Britain are now participating.
So irrelevant that Glasgow University have
dedicated an entire office to the campaign, that
Birmingham have brought in special telephones
for this purpose? So irrelevant, in fact, that the
campaign has been covered by The Guardian,
The Telegraph and the Today programme on
Radio 4. The national media are queuing up to
cover it. B B C Scotland and Northern Ireland,
Right To Reply, Comment (Channel 4), Pebble
Mill, The Late Show and even M T V for Christ's
sake, have all been in contact. And Felix! You,
in your wisdom, decided it is not newsworthy.
You decided on behalf of the students of IC not
to participate. What gives you this right?
I will stick my neck out and guess your major
defence on this one. Is it the old argument, "we
need articles to be submitted before Tuesday
because it take us four days to typeset?" I realise
that you must plan the format in advance, so that
you have multiples of four pages. Obviously
adding or taking articles away is not easy given
this constraint. On top of this, you have the time
it takes to typeset a page: three to four days for
the entire issue, so I am told. Your solution is to
sacrifice the quality of the issue in hand for the
quality of presentation. Wrong. Presentation
quality should always be subordinated to quality
of content. You should pride yourself on the
contents of Felix, not its layout.
And are you telling me that nothing is typeset
on the Wednesday or Thursday? Of course it is.
Get your priorities right. You should be planning
so that articles which can be postponed for a
week are typeset last. This way you will have
time to fit in a last minute article at the expense
of a music review which can wait.
Having edited on a smaller scale myself and
being a close friend of the only non-sabbatical
editor in the history of Felix (Andy Butcher), I
understand the time constraints of producing a
weekly magazine or newspaper. I know it's
possible to include 'news' - your excuses are
totally unsubstantiated. You have no reason to
print a review in favour of important news or a
relevant article submitted by a student.
And letters? The number of letters received is
a good indication of the number of people that
read it. No surprises then, that last week's Felix
contained one letter and this week's had a record
zero. You're not helping yourself by insisting on
the presentation of a Union card with every
letter. What on earth is the purpose of this? It
hasn't been done by editors in the past so what
makes you think you need it? I remember Felix
when it had two or three pages of letters which
made fascinating reading and made Felix feel
like a genuine student paper; It was addressing
student issues. Contentious 'flame wars'
between sometimes anonymous writers made
Felix a regular on my reading list. These days I
skim through it in less than a minute and then
put it in the bin.
For the record this letter will be presented to
you on the morning of Tuesday 8th February,
just past the deadline you normally set, giving
you three whole days to find room for it. As
usual, I will even supply it on disk so that you
don't have to type it in. Your image in the eyes
of the students will be defined by the effort you
make to print this.
Gareth Davies, Physics PG3.
Imperial and the University of Life
Dear Ed.,
In recent issues there has been some talk
about the apathy amongst students at Imperial
College in thinking about matters outside
academic affairs and at the risk of getting my
fingers burned I would like to add some fuel to
the fire in the light of last week's ideology
feature (end similie).
We can only write from personal experience
- things we have heard, seen, felt and done - and
the speed of modern media has helped to bring
these experiences to us more rapidly than ever
before. The media has presented to me over the
past year home truths which I find have
shattered many of my ideals/idols.
As I read of the worsening of the war in
Bosnia, famine in Somalia, the deaths of two
boys in the Warrington bombing and two other
boys being responsible for the murder of James
Bulger - Michael Jackson's 'Heal the World'
was played at his funeral before yet another boy
alleged sexual abuse, forever tarnishing the
image of the man behind the myth - as I have
seen this happen around me I have contemplated
my own position in the world, studying in the
bricks and concrete jungle that is IC.
Now I know that the majority of IC students
don't voicibly express these opinions (in which
case this letters page would normally be far
fuller) but I am sure they must ponder the issues
from time to time. As I have matured over the
two and a half years at IC many of my academic
ideals too have been dispelled: the joy of
learning and a communal spirit of purpose to
understand have been replaced by the more
realistic aims of protecting one's own interests,
and keeping one's head above water.
In our department I see career-obsessed, self-
centred go-getters either not caring for learning
for its own sake and only seeking to do the
minimum to pass exams, or the mark-hungry
academics with the sole aim of a first. I would
be the first to call hypocrisy on my part - I am
forced to comply or be another casualty of this
rat race. Now I may be wrong - there may not be
a problem at all: this is, after all, preparation for
real life in the modern world - but in my mind,
such one-dimensionality seems tragic.
I end with the well-known peer to student
adage: you go to University not only to learn but
to receive an education. Thank you Ed./reader
for printing/reading this letter in its entirity.
Perhaps there are some ideologists out there who
would like to reply to or comment on some of
the points I have raised.
Sagar Das, Chem Eng 3.
There is a news article on the Media Virus Campaign on page 2

