Feature
Making Sense of Nons
How do you live in a world gone mad? How do you justify the 'Theatre of the
Absurd'? Is the fight still on, or was it always, ridiculously, over?
Where can you run from the plays of Samuel Beckett?
What would a critic of the late twenty first
century think of the theatre of the twentieth?
What would it tell her about us, our times and
our view of ourselves? What to make of a
century that produced both Cole Porter and
Bertolt Brecht, both Ray Cooney and Samuel
Beckett?
If we look behind us, back to the Europe of
the nineteenth century, we sense, in many of the
works of that time and place, a feeling of
optimism, a faith in progress and in humanity's
perfectibility. We're exhilarated by it, although
we're forced, jaundiced as we've become, to see
it as naive. What message are we transmitting to
posterity through our drama? What emotions,
what concerns will the audiences of the future
perceive in the plays of our age?
Our century has seen old certainties crumble
in the face of brutality on a scale that was
undreamt of by even the most pessimistic
Victorian. In the two European wars which went
on to tear the whole world apart, the culture of
this continent invented, developed and perfected
its latest gift to the culture of the world:
industrialised murder; efficiency in the cause of
insanity. The West, so long convinced of its
superiority in all things, has been forced to look
upon its demons. Nothing in the culture has
escaped the effect, least of all our theatre.
We have no earnest, morally serious,
uplifting plays to offer posterity. We no longer
even bother to mock plays like that, as Oscar
Wilde did; they are irrelevant to us except as
amusing period pieces. Instead, our playwrights
have been faced with this stark choice: confront
the abyss or ignore it.
Many have opted for the latter; above
everything else, ours is the age of the Theatre of
Escape. Spectacular musicals and bawdy farces
have come to dominate the great theatres of the
West's major cities, as we desperately strive to
forget who, and what, we've become. The best
playwrights of our century, however, have
looked the Medusa in the face. Instead of being
turned to stone, they have been animated by the
experience.
Some, like Brecht, have responded by
seeking to politicise the theatre, to use it as a
vehicle for ideology. Others, like O'Neill, have
been moved to write plays of crushing bleakness
and pessimism, discarding even traditional
tragedy's dimension of redemption and hope.
But the collapse of our culture's self-confidence
has inspired a more intriguing response than
either of these. A small group of post-war
playwrights - not so much a group, really, as a
number of maverick individuals - have chosen
to use drama as a way of embodying our
uncertainty: of celebrating it, even. This
movement, if that's what it is, has been dubbed
the Theatre of the Absurd. Its High Priest, if it
can have such a thing, is the French-Rumanian
playwright Eugene Ionesco.
Born in 1912 into an Eastern Europe about to
be devastated by war and later naturalised as a
citizen of France (whose suffering in the First
War was as great and whose moral dilemma
during the Second was unique), Ionesco is
perfectly placed to be a commentator on
anything. Nothing could be further from the
didactic pontifications of, say, a Brecht than
Ionesco's disturbing, hilarious forays into pure
unreason. His plays throw us directly into his
vision of the human predicament in an age that
has lost its faith in both God and Man.
Ionesco's Exit the King, DramSoc's
production of which is scheduled in March, is a
very funny play. Its humour is anarchic, surreal,
irrational, bizarre. It's concerned with a man's
inexorable, predictable, frighteningly rapid
descent towards death, but it's no less funny for
that. In fact, that's where the humour comes
from. Ionesco takes one central idea - that in our
faithless age, I can't be sure that all of reality
isn't an illusion that will vanish when I die - and
follows it remorselessly, hilariously, to its
logical (yet profoundly illogical) conclusion.
But it would be wrong, it would be selling
lonesco short, to represent Exit the King as
nothing but a piece of surreal goonery, a sort of
Rumano-French Monty Python and the Holy
Grail. This is also - and there's no contradiction
here - a disturbing, emotionally violent play. It's
comic because it's tragic, and vice versa.
Exit the King is being intensively rehearsed
by a small, committed, thoughtful cast with
myself, as nominal director, acting as a conduit
for the group's ideas. If we do this fine play
justice, and we ought to, then the production
promises to be a bit special.
There's no doubt that our critic of the future
will see Exit the King, and the rest of Ionesco's
work, as one of our culture's most important
artifacts. What she'll deduce from it about this
age, and about us who live in it, is harder to say:
what can you make of people like us, who have
been driven to seek their enlightenment in
nonsense?
Phil Ramsden
Got a problem? See if Min has an answer for it on page 6

