Feature 5
Hunting the Great Bright Sparks
A word of explanation before unleashing this
upon you. For the bat eyed, the Bohemians did
exist; in a poster propagating capacity targeting
our own Sherfield Walkway. Apart from one
message, seemingly directed at our reporter,
they have been rather quieter this term.
Myself and others wondered who they were,
although most people probably hadn't even
noticed their A4 demarked presence. It wasn't
their message I was interested in - it was them.
Who were these people who seeked to add
intellectual colour to the Imperial landscape ? In
a college whose populace is so often decried as
apethetic, who were these oddballs who could
be bothered? The reporter came back with this.
Do we believe him? Me, maybe I have to...
- Owain, Features Editor
The Bohemians seemed to be an anomaly, a
group who did no more than plaster the Sherfield
Walkway with their obscure posters. Few
remembered them for more than those glancing
seconds that their distracted eyes caught sight of
the posters. There were however a few hardy
souls who lingered. For them, the tiny
subscripted name acted like a beacon, a holy
grail. Those people wanted to know more. I had
not been one of them, but somehow I was into
the web of secrets and darkness that was The
Bohemians. It all started one alcohol sodden
night in the FELiX office.
The topics wandered vaguely in the usual
tired manner of late night discussions until it
stumbled upon that name, The Bohemians. They
wanted an investigator and somehow I was
hired. It seemed like a dead end job. I had no
clues, no leads except fading memories of
meaningless posters.
"OPEN YOUR EYES", commanded the first.
There then followed an ultra pretentious blitz of
almost blank sheets, each one graced by the
name of some grand obscurity. More posters
appeared and passed unnoticed, and then just
before Christmas, 'Awareness'. The attached art
postcards didn't last long, trampled underfoot or
taken to adorn bedsit walls.
I was left with only one option. For nights
without end I loitered in the Siberian winds of
the Walkway, lacerated by the wind and
wreathed in nicotine smoke. Whatever crazy
sonofabitch designed that sky high pavement
sure knew how to control the weather; the wind
up there was always gale force, regardless of the
atmosphere in the real world.
Three times I waited amongst the fluttering
posters, kicking at the tumbleweed bundles of
dead publicity that wrapped themselves around
my ankles. The task was hopeless, beyond the
stage of being a subject for drunken
existentialism. Then it happened! I saw a figure
moving through the darkness. Some freaked out
paramilitary in balaclava and jet black fatigues,
armed with a fistful of posters. He plastered
every wall in seconds flat. I was mesmerised by
his professionalism.
When I came to my senses it was too late to
give chase but I ran anyway, my coat billowing
out behind me in the gale. The terrorist vanished
amongst the taxis on Exhibition Road. I kicked
myself for missing my only opportunity, then
walked back to the posters. M y jaw dropped
with shock when I read them.
'WE KNOW WHO Y O U ARE'.
Shit. Underneath that Big Brother boast was a
greater shock, a coded message, beginning with
my initials. Back in the bustling FELiX office
we tried to disentangle the random letters which
might be my only path to the Bohemians. It had
to be somebody who knew my game, but I had
told no one about my investigation. That left
only the FELiX journos themselves...or me? The
accusations rang out for an hour, each denial
seen as a bluff, each bluff seen as a counter
bluff. Nobody dared to solve the code, for fear
of accusation. The atmosphere in that office was
more tense than the worst of the McCarthyist
witch hunts. The code: hfddagcago (let).
The answer eventually came late one night
when my mind ran backwards - it was a
telephone number. The obviousness of it hit me
like a ton of the proverbial bricks.
I dialled the next morning, my heart
pumping. A thousand possibilities were silenced
by the click on the phone. It was a recorded
message: "Tomorrow night, twenty one thirty,
twelve Neston Street, be..." - my hand dashed
swiftly to write down the address, dropping the
receiver with a crash. I rang back, but there was
silence on the other end. Weird.
Again in the FELiX office the suspicions
emerged. Some, it seemed, thought that it was
all a fantasy from my warped mind, but they
weren't the ones who heard the message. They
weren't the ones hounded by Twilight Zone
posters. They even offered to go to Neston Street
with me just to make sure it wasn't a big joke.
Neston Street. A back street off a back street
amongst the dark alleys of Rotherhithe, a place
so Dickensian that I expected to meet a M r
Twimblewidget. The clacking of my boots on
the paving echoed off the charred brick of burnt
out buildings in the eerie silence. I soon found
number 11. A flight of steps led down beneath a
sign: The Heart. The picture was gruesome, a
sick parody of a pub sign. I descended, whistling
inane tunes from The Wizard of Oz.
The heat, the noise, the sweat, all hit me at
once. Where I expected a damp basement lit by a
40 watt glow, I had found a throbbing club:
somehow the noise hadn't dared to venture past
the door. The room was full of 'individual'
types, the sort who like to think that they think
for themselves and aren't swayed by the herd
mentality. A waiter approached, pointing to a
table near the back. They had been expecting
me, it seemed. There were five of them, one
female. Who were they?
Descartes, Plato, Zeno, Wittgenstein... ho ho
ho, so they name themselves after dead
philosophers. Hadn't that been done before? Oh
yes, those turtles who were named after famous
renaissance pizzas. It seemed these weren't your
usual poetry reading at dawn, "actually I found
these shoes on the street" type of long hair
bohemian, but something more Neo, more
Quasi. These dudes were sharp dressers, all
angles and edges, their faces honed with power
tool precision. I looked at them silently and a
drink landed by my hand, with a bill.
Individuality doesn't come cheap these days.
"What's it all about?", I asked. I lit up, and
they opened up. Plato started to rant.
"Ever heard of the Art Concepts Group?
They wanted to play with the world, to create a
modern day myth, to sculpt reality rather than
stone. A subversive group who may or may not
exist. They pulled weird stunts here and there,
but nobody noticed. So they went further.
Started claiming responsibility for other things -
thefts, bombs, hijackings. It became quite a scam
for a while, they even got a mention on
'Newsnight'. But it went wrong. Somebody got
hurt, killed, I think. Anyway they had to vanish."
"So what's that got to do with you?"
"Nothing. I just wanted to clear the air. I
didn't want you drawing any parallels. You
journos are fond of conspiracy theories."
I chewed at the bill, asked them more about
themselves, but was hit by subtle evasiveness. I
never even noticed when they directed the
conversation onto other subjects. Another drink
landed by my hand.
The atmosphere of The Heart started to seep
through my reality and the importance of my
quest drifted into the cold night outside. I began
to feel the buzz in the place. It was the buzz of
real intelligence, working minds! Conversations
turned to discussions, to arguments. At one point
somebody even leapt onto a table to deliver a
complex tirade! The drinks arrived, the empty
glasses were removed, and the waiters forgot
about the bills which littered the tables. I slowly
began to understand the Bohemians and why
they did what they did. As the night wore on into
the squawking birdsong of early morning
everything made sense.
My friends, you want to know more about the
fabled Bohemians! How they found me, or why
they care about Jaques Derrida? Well, I'm afraid
I can't tell you. You see, what happened was
inevitable really. I joined them. So if you are
wandering the walkway late at night and see a
shady figure in a greatcoat, it will be me. Out
bill sticking for the Bohemians.
"Random" 1641
This week's Cat's Tale is on page 18

