Feature
Got A Problem? Ask Auntie Min . . .
Minever Kavlak, Union Adviser, deals with some of the common problems
experienced by students whilst they are studying at university as well as those
faced in everyday life.
No R E F U N D S ?
Dear Min...
My new cassette-recorder doesn't work. There's
a sign in the shop which states 'No Refunds' and
I've been offered a repair. What do I do?
You are entitled to a refund if you buy an item
that:
1. Is not fit for its purpose;
2. Is not of merchantable quality;
3. Is not as described.
You do not have to accept a repair and the
'No Refunds' sign is invalid.
You should write to the trader requesting a
refund under the terms of the Act. If its refused
get advice from the Union Adviser or Consumer
Advice Centre.
A C C I D E N T S A N D
INJURIES
Dear Min...
/ had a bicycle accident and suffered physical
injury. Can I claim compensation?
You should take legal advice in a free interview
with a solicitor under the Accident Legal Advice
Scheme (ALAS).
Note: The first interview is free. Further
consultations are subject to costs. You may,
however, qualify for legal aid.
For details of A L A S solicitors, phone 071
242 2430 or the law society 071 242 1222.
E X T R A F U N D I N G
Dear Min...
Is there anyone who can give students financial
assistance?
Many students face financial difficulty and
restrictions on social security benefits haven't
helped. Nevertheless, there are a few options.
Access Funds can assist 'home' students in
hardship. Applications are available from the
College Fees Office, room 334, Sherfield
Building. The forms must be returned by 25th
February 1994. Trusts and Charities give small
amounts of assistance.
I have compiled a 'Money to Study' guide
which includes information on financial aid
available including trusts, grants, loans. You can
use the guide by contacting the receptionist in
the Union Office.
SPOUSES A N D VISAS
Dear Min...
I'm a student form a visa national country. I
want my wife to join me. What must I do?
Your wife can apply to come to Britain as your
dependent. You need to show you have adequate
support (income) and accommodation to live
together.
Your wife needs to apply for a visa from the
British Consulate. If granted, she will have the
right to stay here for the same period as your
study.
If you need more advice on her rights on how
to obtain a visa, see the Union Adviser.
Note: Immigration laws are sexist. Husbands
of female students cannot normally come as
dependents and should apply on another status.
T E N A N T S A N D
L A N D L O R D S
Dear Min...
/ have an Assured Shorthold Tenancy. I like the
place but my landlord won't fix the leaking roof
and the house is damp. What can I do ?
Your landlord has a legal duty to carry out struc-
tural repairs under section 11 of the Landlord &
Tenant Act 1985.
You should put a list of repairs required in
writing to the landlord (keep a copy) quoting the
section of the act.
If nothing is done, contact the Tenancy
Relations Officer or Environmental Health
Officer at the local council.
A L C O H O L A D V I C E
Dear Min...
/ need to speak to someone about my alcohol
problem. Who can help?
You may find the following helpful:
oAlcoholics Anonymous
Tel 071 834 8202
•Accept
Tel 071 381 3155/2112
•Don Adlington, Counsellor
Tel internal ext. 3041
•Nightline
Tel 071 436 5561
•Your G.P.
N U R S E R Y F E E S
Dear Min...
My child has a place at the Day Nursery but I
cannot afford the fees. Is there any help?
Yes - the College may be able to help with the
fees. The Union also have limited funds to help.
The amount of subsidy you are entitled to, if
any, depends on you income and outgoings. You
need to fill in a form so your claim can be
assessed.
See the Union Adviser for further details
All these enquiries are fictitious - any
resemblance to actual cases or persons is totally
coincidental.
If you have a problem or query, you can make an appointment
to see the Union Adviser at the reception desk in the
Union Office, 1stfloor,Union Building.
She can also be contacted by telephoning extension 3507.
All enquiries are in total confidence.

