Clubs and Societies
Abysmally Heavy, Man
Greenland:
The Hard Way
On Thursday 24th February Steve Jones of the
British Alpine Club will lecture on his 1993
expedition to the frozen wastes of Greenland.
The four man team spent 38 days crossing the
icecap from east to west. This was done
completely unsupported, pulling all their
supplies on fibreglass pulks (sleds). As well as
the tortuous physical battle they endured, a
limited scientific programme was also
completed as well as filming for American
television.
This should be particularly interesting for
those fond of the polar regions, mountaineering
and hillwalking. Anyone who has attempted the
Pennine Way or West Highland Way should be
able to sympathise with the task they undertook!
The lecture will take place in the Pippard
Lecture Theatre, 5th floor, Sherfield Building at
6pm and is free to members, £1 for non
members or £2.50 for lecture and membership
(available on the door).
Further details from the Chairman, David
Edwards, Management III.
God, Sex, Death
Sex is a sensational subject people like to read
about. When Simon Hughes M P came to
College on 24th January, he opened his talk
entitled Christianity and Politics by suggesting
that he could have given a press release
revealing he was speaking to I C U Methodist
Society about God, Sex and Politics. Without
actually changing the content of what he had to
say, he would have thus caught the attention of
most of Britain's tabloid readership.
Simon Hughes, Liberal Democrat member
for Bermondsey, had recently supported
changing the age of consent for homo and
heterosexuals to 17 and described how, more
often than not, his faith supports the decisions he
has to make. Among the list of positions he
holds within his party, Simon is Deputy Whip
and spokesperson for the Church of England. He
stimulated much thought and questioning;
mention of the recent political sex scandals was
only part of a very entertaining evening with us.
ICU MethSoc now invites you to tackle the
subject of sex on a more serious level. On
Monday 21st February at 6pm, Rev. John Cooke
will be speaking about God, Sex and Death -
The Challenge of AIDS.
Rev. Cooke is currently Superintendent
Minister of the Hammersmith and Fulham
Circuit of the Methodist Church, but dedicates a
lot of his time to the challenge he will be talking
about. As a Methodist, he was well known last
year for having proposed the resolution to the
Annual Methodist Conference affirming the
presence of homosexual people in the ministry.
His work with H I V and A I D S is far more
widespread and has included spending time on
Full of immature humour, in your face visuals
and animated sex, Heavy Metal was something
of a Fantasia for the '80s. Animated SF films
used to be rare, especially ones with such artistic
talent behind them. The film grew out of the
comic/magazine of the same name, renowned
for its stunning artwork, over-the-top sex and
even the occasional intelligent storyline, and
certainly lives up to its pedigree. Visually
outrageous with mindblowing animation and a
rock soundtrack featuring the diverse talents of
Black Sabbath, Trust, Sammy Hagar, Blue
Oyster Cult and many more, Heavy Metal is a
very amusing little film. It starts at 6pm in Chem
E n g L T l .
Next up at 7.45pm is Repo Man, Alex Cox's
anarchic and very funny SF satire. Emilio
Estevez stars as Otto, a street punk drawn into
the strange and dangerous world of car
repossession chasing a lobotomised scientist
with radioactive aliens in the boot of his Chevy
and desperately trying to get a blow-job off his
girlfriend. Both videos are free to ICSF
members and members of RockSoc. You will
have the chance to join Rocksoc and find out
more about what they do at both films.
and Politics
sabbatical in Zimbabwe, Zambia and San
Francisco researching how the church is
responding to the AIDS crisis. He is involved
with pastoral care of those living with the virus
and is a trustee of CAR A (Care and Resources
for people with AIDS and HIV) and sits on the
Management Committee of London Churches'
HIV/AIDS Trust.
Having been University Chaplain at
Lancaster and Nottingham, the evening promises
to be an informative occasion for both students
and staff and everyone is warmly welcome. It is
being held on Monday 21st February at 6pm in
the office of the West London Chaplaincy, 10
Prince's Gardens. Our banner outside will make
it obvious where to go!
There are a few other events which may be of
interest and again everyone is welcome. On
Saturday 26th February at Hinde Street
Methodist Church, W l , we have helped to
organise a day of seminars and workshops (from
12pm-4pm) entitled Christians and Muslims in
Contemporary Britain. It is being led by Rev.
Martin Forward, MA, MLitt, FRAS, who is well
informed on the subject and keen to build
bridges with our friends of different faiths
around us. Light refreshments will be served
from 11.30am, but there are over twenty pubs in
the area to enjoy afterwards if necessary!
One other Monday night meeting to look
forward to is on March 7th, when Susan
Howdle, President of the Methodist Conference,
will be speaking. We meet every Monday at
6pm in the Chaplaincy Office. If you want any
further information, don't hesitate to contact
John Salmon (Maths UG2).
Membership costs just £3 and gets you free
entry to our full programme of video double-
bills, the chance to borrow over 3000 books,
videos and graphic novels from our library in the
corner of Beit Quad and reduced entry to our
35mm presentations, including your first film
free.
On Tuesday we present at 6pm in the STOIC
Studio (on the top floor of the Union Building)
the Special Edition of James Cameron's the
Abyss along with The Making of the Abyss.
Weighing in at just under three hours, this cut
includes more characterisation early on in the
film and also provides a reason for the
underwater aliens' presence on Earth along with
some staggering new tidal wave footage. The
prospect of a three hour film may be daunting,
but thanks to Cameron's extreme sense for
action pacing and razor dialogue the story
hammers along relentlessly with taut editing and
powerful set pieces. The Making Of was only
available with the now sold-out boxed set, so
come and find out exactly how they did do that
water tentacle.
Admission is free to ICSF members with
membership details given above.
Dribblers
IC 2, CXWMS 1
Knowing that our position in the league table
would be unaffected by the result, the Ladies'
Football team went into this match without the
pressure of previous matches.
The first play of the match saw a beautifully
worked move in the midfield ending with a
cross from Chris on the left wing and a superb
finish by Juliette. A few minutes later Jennifer
showed some impressive footwork going
through several midfielders before playing the
ball to Chris for what turned out to be almost an
exact duplication of the previous goal.
Five minutes into the match and up two
goals, IC began to relax. Charing Cross used
this moment of weakness in the IC defence to
their advantage and brought the score to 2-1.
Realising a lot could happen in the next 80
minutes, IC settled down and played one of our
best matches yet. The forward line of Tamara,
Julianna and Jennifer kept the C X goalkeeper
under pressure. Some magnificent runs by the
midfielders, Maryam, Juliette and Chris, meant
the C X defence were constantly under attack.
Our own line of defence, Sally, Jane, Paula
and Laura, kept the other end of the pitch under
control with some impressive sliding tackles by
Paula saving us from any real threat.
Half-time saw Michelle coming on to the
forward line. A tactical switch moving Julianna
to her normal position as sweeper and Jane to
the forward line meant IC dominated the half.
A special mention for Sarah who played an
outstanding match as goalkeeper (in Linda's
absence) and Jennifer who made her debut for
IC by taking out the captain - unfortunately it
was our captain not theirs'.
You've seen the posters, now read the article on page 5

