Clubs and Societies
Motor Sports
Championship
Last weekend the National Students' Motor
Sports Championship took place in Cambridge.
The competition is only open to students and
gives them a chance to test their skills against
others who also can't afford a turbo-charged
four-wheel drive supercar. It takes the form of
three separate competitions: an autotest, which
involves the driver handbraking the car round
traffic cones in a car park against the clock; a
table-top rally, where the navigator solves rally
navigation clues and a 160 mile all-night road
rally, where the crew scream down country lanes
in the dead of night. The event usually attracts
entrants from most university motor clubs, and
this year C & G C U Motor Club had the arduous
task of improving on fifth place achieved by a
crew from the club last year.
Things started to deviate from the plan of
action a week before the rally, when we
discovered that the front shock absorbers were
knackered and had to be rebuilt. How long does
it take to rebuild a pair of shock absorbers we
wondered? Three weeks minimum came the
reply from he manufacturers. After much
cajoling they agreed to do them in a week, so at
5pm on the Friday before the event we collected
the shock absorbers and proceeded to piece the
car's suspension back together. Oh, and we had
to refit the oil cooler, wire in new spotlights, re-
house the washer bottler mechanism and so on.
At 2.30am on Saturday, we discovered the
back left suspension mountings weren't working
at all and fought with the car until 5.30am before
grabbing some sleep. At 8.30am we started
again and by 10.15am managed to get the car
finished. We got to Cambridge at 11.05am, one
minute after our start time on the table-top rally.
At first glance the navigation clues were nigh
on impossible, a situation which wasn't helped
by lack of sleep or food. A helping can of coke
did wonders and after getting the hang of the
four and a half hour Mensa-style test, Garrett
managed to finish fourth.
On the autotest, Chris's performance was
somewhat compromised by the fact that the
handbrake wasn't being very effective, making
Come Drawing
This term has witnessed the birth of the first
Fine Arts Society here in the cradle of Science
and Technology. The name? Leonardo Society
(or LeoSoc for short). The purpose? To give you
the scientist a chance to discover you the artist.
And if you've already done that, then why not
continue to nurture that side of you here on
campus?
Our activities presently include organising
drawing and painting classes. These classes are
supervised by students from the Royal College
of Arts. No, no arts lectures, they are there to
help you find out how much you can do!
Different things are done in each session in
accordance with what people like and what the
handbrake turns quite challenging to execute!
Things started looking up once the rear brakes
bedded themselves in, but the hardest part of this
event wasn't controlling the car, it was
remembering which route to take through the
traffic cones. The organisers, in their infinite
wisdom, decided not to mark the various routes
on the course. Instead they gave all competitors
a photocopy of the plan for the dozen or so
routes and expected them to memorise them.
This proved fairly difficult and Chris finished
fifth.
We were now lying in joint fourth place
overall with a crew from Edinburgh University
Motor Club. At this point we were so tired we
were having trouble seeing straight, so caught a
couple of hour's sleep before heading off
suitably refreshed to the start of the road rally.
At 11.38pm we roared off into the country
lanes and were doing fairly well when white
smoke started to pour from the rear of the car. At
the next Time Control we got out to find the
back right brake disc glowing bright red - the
handbrake had jammed on. Loosening a nut
seemed to fix it, so we set off again, trying (not
very successfully) to avoid using the handbrake
at any tight bends. The car then decided to belch
petrol vapour into the passenger compartment,
so we opened the windows and told ourselves it
wasn't really that cold, even if it was snowing.
Arriving at the halfway break we found we
teacher has planned. We have two teachers, one
for each session.
When? We have two weekly sessions:
Mondays 6-8pm and Wednesdays 2-4pm in the
Civil Engineering department, rm 101.
How much? Membership costs £2 students,
£4 non-students. Each session costs £2.
Materials? Paper will be provided. We're
providing different materials for you to try first
and then buy whatever you like. These include
acrylics, chalk pastels and charcoals.
So why not give it a try. Just turn up and see
what the classes are like and give us a chance to
meet you and hear your questions and your
suggestions!
were the first student crew in, so after filling
ourselves and the car up with various liquids we
set off feeling much happier than we had done
earlier. The navigation clues, which define the
rally route, became much tougher in the second
half. As a result we went off route, costing us
valuable time. Everything was going well, then
about a mile from the finish we had what is
called in motor sport jargon a 'moment'.
We were going at a velocity approaching
three figures when the ignition switch blew,
rendering the engine and the lights inoperative.
This wouldn't be much of a problem in a well lit
city street but in the dead of night down an unlit
country lane it meant we couldn't see a great
deal. Thankfully, Chris managed to stop us
without hitting any trees or ditches and after
rewiring the ignition switch we got to the finish
inside our maximum allowed time.
At the end we came second on the road rally,
moving us into second place overall in the
championship, which we were fairly pleased
with, all things considered!
If you like the sound of this kind of stuff then
either come to our Club night (see College diary
section in Felix) or pop along to the C & G C U
Office, Level 3, Mechanical Engineering, any
lunchtime and ask to speak to a member of the
Motor Club or leave your name and department.
It doesn't matter if you don't have a car as you
can use the Motor Club's Mini on some events,
The Committee:
Mehul Khimasia
Physics UG3, e-mail: mml.khimasia@ic
Angela Darekar
Physics UG2, e-mail: aa.darekar@ic
Huma Islam
Computing UG2, e-mail: hji@doc.ic
Ola A l Deeb
Computing UG2 e-mail: oya@doc.ic
Yoon Yong ISE UG2 e.mail: yky@doc.ic
and Painting with Leonardo Soc
The deadline for Clubs & Societies entries is 6pm, Friday

