j
NO MORE NAKED
KNEES
For a club only one term old, the Scout and Guide Club is a
roaring success. Even if considered as a na'ura! continuation of the
axed Rover Crew, it is doing very nicely, thank you. But it can claim
the position of the most maligned club ir, IC. Nobody seems to
believe that big hats and bare knees (or in the case of Icwarians, long
blue dresses and the Vicar's wife) are out Trying to persuade the
average IC student otherwise is like warning a fresher about the Uni-
versal Meatball—they just won't believe it until they've tried it them-
selves.
The members of the club tend
to come from every department
at IC (even if Physics does seem
to have a major shareholding) and
every year from 1st year C&G to
3rd year PG. The unifying factor
is interest in the club objects and
activities.
The club programme includes
regular lunchtime meetings and a
variety of weekend events. Lunch-
time speakers this term have
talked on such diverse subjects as
the real meaning of the weather
forecast, what living with a guide^
dog entails and how to look muti-
lated (courtesy of the Casualties
Union).
Weekends
Weekend activities cater for
those tired of toasting by ultra-
violet at the Plastic Fairytale but
not hearty enough for rugby.
Hiking is the main occupation at
these events, but great care is
taken to find a large dry cottage
to stay in, preferably close to a
suitable hostelry. The major
weekend event of the term, a
trip to Brecon Beacons, had to be
cancelled—we don't want the
chairman to catch foot and
mouth.
The club also undertakes a
number of service projects. A
request to bu;
ld a "rabble tower"
was joyfully accepted in the hopes
of incarcerating some of the crab
members. It turned out to be
a typing error and a rubble filled
tower was finally constructed.
One weekend was taken up in
clearing the banks of the Wey
Navigation canal—nobody fell
in, but it was the wettest week-
end of the term.
Expeditions
As well as the normal termtime
programme, the club undertakes
a Summer Expedition in the first
three weeks of the Summer Vac.
This consists of going somewhere
fairly inaccessible and doing a lot
of hiking. Previous expeditions
have been to Jugoslavia, Iceland
and elsewhere in Europe. Next
year will see a massive party going
to the Jotunheimen in Norway.
Transport
Another club activity is in-
volvement in Union transport.
The crew managed the old RCC
van which slowly disintegrated
BuHding the « rabble tower " in record time.
under extreme wear. The de-
cline was marked by bump start-
ing on the M l and the time the
van spat out bits of differential
on the Kingston By-pass. The
club are well represented on the
committee running the new R C C
vehicle, a shining white 1966
Transit minibus (bookings to
Transport Committee, c/o Union
Rack).
Links
The club does retain some links
with the Scout movement, assist-
ing in the running of a number
of troops in Westminster. An-
other responsibility is organising
the annual Venture Scout De-
cathlon, a sort of 24 hours assault
course. The Marquis de Sade
could learn plenty from the me-
thods used there. Last year pride
of place went to a rope bridge in
the treetops. Links with the
guide movement are somewhat
hmited by the number of Icwa-
rians.
Intercourse
The Scout and Guide club has
probably the unrivalled oppor-
tunity to meet students from other
colleges and varsities at the thrice-
yearly rallies of Scout and
Guide clubs. These are held over
a weekend, and IC usually1
make
a big impact. Incidents at Lough-
boro' this term included the
gentleman who fell into a very
murky river under the watching
eyes of thirty assorted students,
the completion of the IC chant
(yes, there is one), against strong
competition from Birmingham,
and the song for a member of IC
who had his birthday there.
The club has an incident-full
heritage and already has a num-
ber of incidents recorded for
posterity in the club log. For
those looking for an opportunity
to get out of the rut, the Scout
and Guide club might be just the
thing.
HARD
RAIN
On two nights recently, milk
bottles have been thrown out of
Southside windows in the direc-
tion of the Mews. One bottle
broke a skylight of one of the
Mews houses and another nar-
rowly missed a car. They are
thought to have come from stair-
cases 3 or 4, but could have come
from staircases 2, 5 or 6.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE IMPERIAL COLLEGE
BRANCH OF THE A.Sc.W.
• STAND UP FOR DEMOCRACY
In July the technical staff elected by ballot a representative to the
College Parking Committee for 1967/68. The students union
appointed two representatives also for 1967/68. That Committee
on September 14th, unanimously recommended no charge for
parking in College grounds for the first year from the time when
parking meters would come around I.C. This recommendation
was referred back to them by the Acting Rector and at the next
meeting on November 2nd the technical staff and student union
representatives still voted for no charge, since it represented the
wishes of the technical staff and the students.
On November 16th, Lord Penney announced that a parking
levy would be imposed, and the Parking Committee forth-
with reconstituted.
• WHOSE RESPONSIBILITY ?
G.L.C. statutory regulations require O N E parking space to be
provided for each 2,000 gross square feet in I.C.'s new buildings.
Total area in these uildings is 1,800,000 gross square feet. There-
fore 900 parking places should now be available for the 850
(approximately) cars coming in or being used here. Under
instruction from the University Grants Committee, Imperial
College claimed exemption from providing these parking spaces
and so underground car parks were cut from the plans. (These
were promised in the original plans as far back as 1956.)
• WHY MONEY IS ASKED FOR
This parking levy does not ensure an individually marked out
parking space to those that pay. It is a levy designed to provide
the wages (£14 per week approx.) of two additional gatekeepers
that the College thinks it may have to employ to prevent out-
siders forcing their way in and parking. A careful analysis indi-
cates that the College can keep itself free of this invasion using
existing staff without any additional cost.
• IS THERE A REAL LONG-TERM SOLUTION FOR I.C.?
It is agreed that the long-term solution is to turn I.C. and the
Museum complex into a pedestrian only area and put all parking
into underground car parks. Using our own specialist knowledge
and acting informally as a trade union, we have something to
report. We have a promise that the G.L.C. traffic management
section would probably be prepared to provide a table around
which they, the Westminster City Council, Imperial College,
I.C.A.Sc.W., and any other actively interested organisation could
meet to carry throuah a feasibility study on this project.
ALL THESE POINTS REQUIRE REAL DISCUSSION . . .
COME TO OUR MEETING FOR STUDENTS ON THURS-
DAY, JANUARY 11th, 1968. LOOK FOR OUR INSERT IN
FELIX ON JANUARY 10th. 1968
ROOM 408
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
THURSDAY, JANUARY 11th, 1968
1.15 — 2.15 p.m.
WE WILL REPORT TO YOU FOR DISCUSSION
WHAT THE A.Sc.W., ON BEHALF OF ALL THE
COLLEGE TRADE UNIONS, HAVE TO SAY . . .
GIVING THE UP-TO-DATE POSITION . . .
MEMBERSHIP of the A.Sc.W. is open to students for 7/6 per year.
The Association is recognised, for example, by all Engineering
Employers, I.C.I.. Dunlop, etc. as the appropriate Trade Union for
scientists and engineers. Write to Secretary, I.C.A.Sc.W. H, Fair-
brother, Mathematics Department, for further information about the
Association. Our activities are many and varied For example, we
played a major part in pursuading Imperial College to discontinue,
some years ago, the Breakagee Depost that all students had to pay.

