4- FELIX
CEDITOR'S
omment
"Bastard," they say, "fancy doing a bloody thing like that."
So talk people of the warden's reaction to the latest incidence of over-
night-guestmanship in the halls. Or is he? I think not. This latest
crisis arose mainly through the fault of the residents of Southside.
One of the conditions of entry to hall is that " residents shall not
introduce overnight guests without authority." Clearly the purpose
of this rule is to avoid the halls becoming " doss houses " or brothels
which may prove distasteful to other residents and bring the college
into disrepute. However no rigid check is kept on residents' move-
ments or on whom they take into their hall rooms. And so, done
discreetly, I cannot see that it would be hard to introduce to the
hall one's mate who has missed his last train. It is not, though,
discreet to remove the cushions of the hall's communal furniture for
him to sleep on. To expect no action to be taken to support the rules
against such open contempt is ridiculous—It is, after all, conceivable
that the hall wardens actually believe in them, even if only in spirit!
In an effort to obtain at least discreet disobedience of these rules
the warden of Selkirk spent the first half of this term broadcasting
that intended to visit hall rooms early one morning. Residents
can't have failed to hear these rumblings—he's told me three times and
I live in the wilds of Beit; perhaps he thinks I might miss my last train
one evening!
However I digress; despite this fore-running commentary of his
actions, cushions continued to be borrowed and so it cannot be deemed
altogether unreasonable that Mr. Seaford should follow through his
threat.
It was, I think, unfortunate that two people whose guests were
not using hall cushions should be discovered. But having been caught,
the warden and hall committee have little option but to meet out the
normal penalty, as a purely nominal punishment would make a further
mockery of the already abused rules.
The two men who were evicted, although themselves taking the
sporting risk inherent in having an overnight guest, have mainly their
less discreet fellow hall dwellers to blame—not, as is suggested, by
some, either the warden or committee of Selkirk Hall.
The recurring problem of overnight-guestmanship seems to a large
extent to be restricted to an occasional sharing of rooms by males—
as opposed to the popular misconception of a mass influx of females
for long weekend " lie-ins." I feel thai there is a logical and viable
solution which attacks the problem at its roots. That is to implement
the suggestion made earlier this year by the Tizard hall committee;
to make available to residents camp beds which may be hired for use
by their guests. Imposing a moderate charge and allowing a
maximum stay of say two successive nights would ensure that the
system fulfilled its purpose of catering for visitors to London and
residents' friends who have missed their trains.
Swimming Gala
After the drastic (ney devastating) desecration of the Union lift
that followed my remarks of the issue before last, I am reluctant to
criticise anything, less it magically disintegrates ! However I feel com-
pelled to make some comment on that farce which wasn't the Swim-
ming Gala. This the second sport function this year that has been
effectively destroyed through the unthinking attitude of a few members
of the Union. Morphy day was socially ruined because people
caused so much chaos on the way to the Putney towpath that the
battle, which is potentially fun and harmless to the general public,
was reduced to almost negligible proportions by police intervention.
And now one or two people have not just ruined the social side of the
inter collegiate swimming sports but caused the swimming itself to be
cancelled.
The sort of attitude that induces such behaviour is more normally
found among kids of five—a new toy is worth nothing until it is
broken and little sister's birthday party is ruined unless the prizes are
stolen and at least half her friends are reduced to tears.
What seems at least as relevant as the fact that such juveniles
exist in our Union is that in the case of the Swimming Gala, the
culprits have so far remained unapprehended for nearly a week. This
leads me to conclude that either we all have the mentality of five
year olds or we don't really want these sports events- anyway. Are
we? or don't we?
Christmas Finale
Through the ever increasing commercial image of Christmas I
saw a way out of all my academic problems— " ah-ha " I thought,
" give away a free problem sheet with every Christmas Felix and give
a 6d. prize for the correct solutions." Alas, this master plan fell
through when my tutors refused to give me worked solutions against
which to check the mound of replies from eager competitors. The
Editor apologises for this administrative error and asks readers to be
satified instead that the Roines Christmas card and psychaedelic
josstick.
HAPPY CHRISTMAS
F E L I X Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
T©1. KEN 2963
Editor : RORY REDMAYN'E
Asst. Editor : John Mullah.
Sports Editor : Phil Hopwood
News Editor : Paul Heath
Features Editor : Les Pryor
Business Managers :
Dave Cooper and Mary Ford
Advertising Manager :
Justin Griffiths
Sales Manager: Chris Slee
Late News Editor: Dick Reeves
Production Manager: John Probst
Photographic Editor :
Colin Broad
Cartoonist: Stuart Senior
What's On : Dick Middleton
With : Colcutt, Alan Stapleton,
Andrew Perry, Anita Furness,
Patsy, John Sommer, Patrick
Rotherham, Ann Wheatley
Ken Simpson, Bob Lewis,
Against Loans
by Les Ebdon
In July 1965, immediately after the triennial review of under-
graduate grants, the Department of Education and Science invited a
number of bodies, including the county councils and the National
Union of Students " to express their views on the place of loans in the
system of student support." The view of Imperial College Union,
N.U.S., the student organisations of the political parties and many
other bodies was : " that the adoption of a loans system would not
only fail in its objective of reducing the financial burden of higher
education to the nation, but would also seriously interfere with the
structure of our educational system." It should be noted that this
history explains why there is no documented case for loans available
because none was made public.
However, let us deal with the arguments the advocates of loans
usually put forward in debate :
If the grants are to be repayed
let us campaign for student wages
which would :
(a) put us on a par with other
apprentices and remove the
stigma of charity;
(b) gain us National Insurance
Contributions;
(c) bring relief to married stu-
dents;
(d) end the means test;
(e) bring monthly pay cheques.
Such a salaries system may well
prove to be our only long-term
defence against inflation and at-
tack on student finance of which
loans are only a symptom.
Advertising Agency: Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.
C H A 6081
Loans Abroad
1. Advocates of loans systems
often point to other countries,
especially Sweden, which operate
such schemes. In fact their use is
exaggerated and The Internatio-
nal Study of University Admis-
sions concluded that loans
systems are comparatively rare.
B U T a number of effects can be
seen in those countries which
have introduced loans:
(a) most institutions abolish
fees and become directly Govern-
ment run;
(b) elaborate schemes of " in-
direct support" exist e.g. cheap
rail fares, free meals and subsi-
dised housing;
(c) examinations are taken
when the student feels able to
pass;
(d) there is widespread part-
time work;
(e) the number of women stu-
dents decreases because of the
" negative dowery " they acquire;
(f) loans are subject to stringent
neans tests.
Graduate Pay
2. It is often said that students
who enter higher education later
gain financial advantages but the
P.E.P. report "Graduate survey"
and the Graduate Employment
Survey, 1962" show that this is
not a general principle. Not only
does later salary depend on class
and subject of degree but also on
family background and other than
academic capabilities, besides
many students non-lucrative pro-
fessions, e.g. teaching and social
work, which are already under-
staffed. It is the aim of the tax
system in this country to correct
any imbalance earnings.
Investment
3. Some people resent paying
for educational opportunities to-
day which were unavailable to
them yesterday, but it should be
realised that education is not a
charity but the soundest of all
economic investments.
Student Wages
4. Lately the so-called brain
drain has been giving concern to
many people but it should be rea-
lised that if foreign firms recruit-
ing in this country offer to repay
the outstanding loan debts of
graduates many more may be
persuaded to leave.
The Robbins report proved
that the U.K. had the best pass
rate in degree courses (77 per
cent, Sweden 55 per cent) and
that these courses were completed
more quickly in this country.
Because of pur grants system we
can boast of a higher percentage
of students frOm working class
homes than other countries. Fi-
nally a loans system would seri-
ously affect residential colleges,
post-graduate training and which-
ever authority had the complex
job of administration.
Les Ebden is a third year
chemist and chairman of Soc.
Soc. He is an active campaigner
against loans.
There was, you see, this Irishman. Whether or not he was
Gerry Fitted for his job, I don't know, but when he asked about the
minutes, there was grumbling on the Government front bench. What
had happened at that Cabinet meeting? Had Premier Ray Phillips
really been devalued? Could it be true that the IC bid to join the
French Women's Association (London Branch) has been greeted with
a resounding " Non"? Was there really to be straight swap of
positions between Jane Pearson and Martin Lack?
The Government was silent and as the rumours grew, the quality
of Mooney meals dropped to an all-time record low. There was no
action for a week—the minutes of that Cabinet meeting had grown
into hours. Suddenly Chancellor " Happy Dave " Harris leaped to
the despatch box : " No comment and no strings," he said, hoping
to prove that Sunray Phillips was not manipulating him. He waved a
Letter of Intent, the latest copy of the Executive branch's minutes. A
sordid little document it was too. It revealed just how little the
Cabinet wished to tell the people while using more words to do it.
One fascinating sidelight mentioned that Irishman. But this one was
a devout Protestant unto his deathbed. And on his deathbed with all
his orange friends around, he was converted to Catholicism. "Why?"
they asked, the orange juice trickling down their cheeks. " Tis better,"
he said, " that one of them should go than one of us."
Another small note mentioned complimentary Christmas presents
to be given to appropriate people. The few short minutes were not
enough to clear up this point but the Opposition had some sugges-
tions:
To give a phillip to the object of the " Pray for Ray " campaign
by giving him a plastic jolly hockey-stick dolly which, when turned
on on its head, tells serious stories.
For Martin " My Union " Lack, a mini-vandal set as advertised on
the back of the cornflake packets. This comprises removable lavatory
pans in polspasticene, a detachable mascot which rings a bell some-
where, for someone, when it is put back in place. Matt Busby says
" This is an ideal game for all United supporters."
For Keith Guy : A fairer share of Ents profits—in plastic. This
is, of course, a fairytale
For Sinclair Goodlad : Another staircase for Wells Soc. members.
For Rex Lowin, whose personal welfare seems to be coming along
fine and for whom the bells toll next summer : a creche.
But the actual facts of these Christmas presents for a Christmassy
future remained obscured in a morass of verbiage. Like the other
branches of government, the Cabinet appeared reluctant to release the
facts. They even seemed reticent about disclosing sittings of the
House. No wonder they were out of touch with the mood of the
country : the publicity of the Cabinet was appalling. From wh?*
there was of it, it was believed that they were a group of girls with
beautiful backsides. One can only hope that the government publicity
officer was as gentle with his nudes as he was with his publicity.
The Cabinet is believed to think it is doing the best job possible
under difficult circumstances. It is known that they think the country
to be a mess. A normally well-informed source reports Premier Phillips
meeting Mick Janes. " Why," he asked, " are you looking so dishe-
velled this morning?" Quietly, Janes said, "I've just been dragged
backwards through a hedge."
Such are the heights to which the sources of Cabinet information
rise. The Central Bureau of Statistics has a vital job on hand. And
let the people know what goes. Or are they Scared?
For myself, I deny being Colcutt. I love you. Merry Christmas to
everyone else. And I should like to give Pete Ruhemann three
secretaries for Christmas . . .

