Letters
Democracy
Dear Sir,
After attending the unusual U G M in the JCR
on Tuesday January 31, I feel that the case for
amending the constitution was not presented
properly. It is true that this lack of discussion
stemmed from a perfectly legal proceedural
motion, but the fact that this mechanism was
used rather suggests that it is time to amend the
rules a n d regulations, w h i l e preserving
democracy.
What an emotive word, democracy. Many will
argue that the meeting was democratic, but
examination of the result provides interesting
statistics. Of the 240 or so who supported the
motion most of those were from St Mary's (total
population 500), thus approximately, 45% of St
Mary's voted for the motion, against 340 IC
students (population 5,000) or 7% of IC. When
you introduce the factor that only 300 or so
students are ever available at one time due to
course commitments, that 45% takes a greater
significance.
Herein the problem lies. N o wonder St Mary's
do not believe the present system is fair for all.
The conduct of the U G M provides much evidence
to support the motion. I was a little surprised that
the motion was voted upon with no discussion.
The reasons for the procedural motion became
obvious: w h e n all those IC students had voted,
they left to go to lectures before the results had
been announced. That suggests to me a lack of
concern or understanding of the issues involved.
St Mary's students gave up an average of two
lectures to attend the meeting. O n the proviso
that IC Union is available to all, then U G M ' s
cannot be held during College hours, as St Mary's
students will be discriminated against.
One also has to remember that over half the
students at St Mary's do not have a formal lecture
course, and learn by working i n the various
hospitals in London and the South East with no
regular hours. If I am 'on take', that is working
all day and night, how can I be represented at
an I C U U G M ? This difference in the working
practice of medical students must be appreciated
along with differences in social activity, by those
who make policy at IC. A s this rests at the
moment, the U G M makes policy, and I have a
totla lack of confidence in that body.
I strongly feel that if an issue central to St
Mary's were debated we would come off the
losers o n the majority of occasions. Ask the
students at St Mary's who have attended
university previously about the difference in the
needs, atmosphere, etc and they will all agree.
I firmly believe that I C U at present is not
equipped or willing to consider St Mary's fairly.
The lack of discussion effectively glossed over
the fact that student accountability will not be
lost. The three individual colleges would take
back much responsibility for policy decisions with
regards to external affairs etc, and then the
representative would be mandated to argue the
agreed line at the I C U meetings. This change
would enable more people to involve themselves
in Union meetings rather than the five or six who
managed to dominate the U G M on January 31.
This I find annoying as I was prevented from
speaking by the mechanism of the situation. It
was also pertinent that no one from St Mary's
explained the situation as we see it, this much
of the reasoning was lost. W e were equal
members at the U G M , with the universal rights
that were referred to so often i n the other
business at the assembly. Those right's we did not
receive.
In conclusion I am not crying foul or feel the
desire for revenge. I am deeply saddened and
disturbed at what transpired last Tuesday, with
a total lack of confidence in the U G M as it stands.
I hope people will take a little time to listen to
all angles of the debate in the future, as St Mary's.
students willing, integration into I C U would
benefit IC immensely. St Mary's is a world leader
in what it does, enjoying a level of public
awareness equal to that of IC. That is a powerful
tool to be used once the integration has taken
place. A t the moment St Mary's is doing all the
giving. In the best agreements one reaches a
compromise, isn't it time IC gave a little?
William Lumb,
St Mary's Hospital Medical School.
Imperial College Union
Dear Bill,
The above letter was pinned on most lockers
around the IC Union Building this week.
However, it does contain a f e w factual
inaccuracies. Firstly, the key was left with
security, who lost it. Secondly, Chas Brereton is
in charge of IC Buildings and he hands out the
keys—it is his responsibility to keep back-up
copies. Thirdly, and most typically, is that since
the keys were lost on January 221989 by security,
he has managed to handle the situation with total
inefficiency. W e left the key numbers a n d
company with him, and he promised either new
copies and/or to contact us. He has still not done
anything after three weeks, even though we have
visited him continuously asking for help. It has
now come to the point where we will have to go
to personal expense to hire a locksmith etc. This
should be the Union's job, not ours.
IC Kung Fu Club.
Ami Jewish
Dear Bill,
I would like to express my concern over certain
childish individuals at this College. A large
number of Jewish Society posters received
personal attention, and messages like 'Fuck the
Jews' were the result, in addition to posters being
torn or burnt. Similar treatment was given to
Wellsoc posters.
This action was not particularly constructive in
any sense of the word, but perhaps if the
author(s) would like to make their opinion public
in FELIX, then we will treat them as mature
adults and act accordingly. In the meantime,
people have been offended and inconvenienced
by this pathetic and cowardly act.
Alternatively, I am willing to listen to any
grievances personally,
S Parkus, Mat Sci 2.
UGM's again
Dear Editor,
At 10.30am on January 31, I made my way
down to the Medical School Restaurant for a
coffee. Amongst the usual rubbish on the table
a freshly photocopied letter from the St Mary's
Student Union caught m y eye. The letter
concerned a vote that was taking place on that
very same day at a U G M to be held at Imperial
College starting at 1.00pm. The vote was to
decide whether decisions about all student union
matters (the Mary's clubs, bar, etc) should be
taken ,»i the U G M s held at IC. These meetings
are almost exclusively attended by students based
at the site south of the park. The other option,
as outlined by the working party, was that the
format of the U G M s should be changed so that
a decision concerning St Mary's would be voted
on at a n U G M at M a r y ' s a n d then a
representative from St Mary's would have a block
vote at the next meeting held at Imperial thus
representing the views of the majority of St
Mary's students without them having to be there
in person.
The word quickly spread through the Medical
School that, although given the very short notice,
it was imperative that as many of us as possible
went to the U G M and tried to stop this vote going
through. Two hundred and fifty students made
their way across the park (which incidentally,
everyone agreed, took 30 minutes on foot) to
arrive at Imperial at 1.00pm. O n the way to the
JCR we were met by provocative posters saying
' U G M 1.00pm, issues include The End of U G M s ' ,
obviously aimed at stirring a biased, intransigent
crowd, determined on maintenance of the status
quo, along to the meeting.
When we all got to the JCR we were told that
the vote in which we were all intersted in was
Issue F, the last on the agenda. Realising that our.
issue was not going to be on for at least an hour,
my heart began to sink as 1 watched the U G M
'in action' working through the first five issues.
The room contained a large number of social
misfits who, for the want of something better to
do, seemed to delight in the use of a term, which
over the space of the next hour and a half I was
to grow to hate—The Procedural Motion.
This was bandied about for everything from
Request for Information to Request to go to the
toilet (well, not quite, but with as nearly a great
a frequency).
Finally, just after 2.00pm it was time for our
issue. The following account outlines a few of the
devious 'democratic' tactics used leading up to
the vote. Firstly, the motion was changed from,
in outline, U G M s are fair and representative
meetings (which the St Mary's students were
against) to U G M s should be abolished (which St
Mary's students were for).
Secondly, an IC student suggested that the
issue was too large and should not be voted on
but considered at another meeting. This,
fortunately, was voted against as the IC Union
said that enough work and discussion h a d
already been put in by the working party. This
was lucky as nowhere near as many St Mary's
students would have attended a second meeting.
A sensible proposal was put forward to discuss
Page 2 FELIX February 17 1989

