Letters
the fifteen point plan of the working party. Both
Phil Drew and Graham Price were on hand to
represent St Mary's i n these discussions.
However an Imperial student, realising that their
2.30pm lectures were about to start and that a
large block of the IC vote would disappear to
attend lectures, proposed thi 'ssue went
straight to a vote. This pro. .. 5 carried.
A couple of procedural motions about the vote
were then put forward. Were St Mary's students
members of IC Union and therefore eligible to
vote? Do St Mary's students have IC U r . n cards
in order to vote? Only Medical c
r ,1 ID cards
would be allowable as proof of St i ary's student
status.
Yours sincerely,
Dominic O'Kane, PATA Chairman 1988-89
Imperialism
Dear Bill,
He's unstoppable, he's determined to wreck
the College and we're powerless to stop him!
Who? Eric A s h of course—just take a look at the
latest proposal to merge with R H B N C — I give up,
all w e can do is ride the storm and hope to
survive. By way of explanation, have you noticed
that:
Imperial College of Science, Technology and
Medicine neatly (and ominously) rearranges to:
I concede, i C mangled to pieces in lone Eric
Egham folly.
Goodbye IC, welcome to the Polytechnic of
South East England.
Yours dispairingly,
S G Banton,
Ex-just about am/thing you can think of.
God to D
a
v
e
Dear Bill,
Dave Thomas is right!
Yours eternally,
God.
Doctor's Orders
Dear Bill,
Last year whilst suffering from glandular fever
I finally submitted to my symptoms and visited
the Health Centre. (I'm paranoid about wasting
the Doctor's valuable time and only go when it
is a choice between a Doctor and the Last Rites).
The questions fired:
Do you have a boyfriend?
Are y o u sleeping with him?
Have you slept with anyone?
Are y o u sure?
Funny, but I could have sworn that the Doctor
was trying for a run of small ads in FELIX.
Finally, after a patronising lecture on student
illnesses all being related to stress and sex, I left
totally disgruntled. The advice? G o home, lie
down and take a paracetamol!! (A paracetamol—a
fast food in the world of medicine.)
O n another occasion a friend of mine needed
a Doctor to be called out and was given a two
minute diagnosis over the phone. Surely the
Doctor should also have given an IC test over the
phone? We all know how impossible articulation
of symptoms can be. Yet how strange, the Doctor
can afford the time to take full account of that
headache, hangover, nosebleed etc. during the
hypochondriac's frequent visits to the surgery.
Surely we could all avoid a half hour wait for the
open surgery and phone-in our symptoms to the
answerphone. Or, with hindsight, just maintain
a supply of paracetamol.
Yours sincerely;
Ann Roberts (Maths I).
Benefits
Dear Bill,
In last week's FELIX an article appeared
entitled 'Loans Publicity'. Whilst I agree with the
author's sentiments regarding the effect
withdrawal of Social Security Benefits will have,
the article also contained some inaccuracies which
are very misleading.
The article stated that the legislation regarding
a student's right to claim Housing Benefit and
Income Support had already been passed. This
is not correct. I contacted the DSS Policy Unit and
was told that the legislation is scheduled to come
into effect from September 1990. The timetable
of the Bill introducing these charges is not yet
known.
It was also stated that 'these cuts are total'
implying that no student would be able to claim
any form of benefit whatsoever. Certainly the cuts
will be devastating but it is likely that there will
still be some benefit that certain students will be
able to claim. Therefore until the Bill has made
its passage through Parliament it is unwise to
make assumptions as to the full extent of the cuts.
Therefore the current position is that students
are still eligible to claim benefits until September
1990. It still remains to be seen what the real
impact of the legislation will be.
Yours sincerely,
Yve Posner, Welfare Adviser.
Harsh Graffiti
Dear Bill,
I was horrified by the sight of neo-Nazi posters,
grafitti and burnt remnants of Jewish Society
posters on the walkway today. Crudely drawn
posters depicted soldiers wearing the Star of
David acting like Nazis, captioned with phrases
like 'Jewish Butcher'. Wellsoc and Filmsoc posters
were daubed with anti-Israeli slogans and
swastikas.
The aim of this despicable display was to make
a perverted link between the atrocities of the
killing of six million Jews in the Holocaust, and
the treatment of Arab refugees in Judea and
Samaria. The same thugs bear the legacy of those
such as the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem. It was Haj-
Amin al Husseini, a best friend of Eichmann, who
congratulated Hitler o n his successes a n d
constantly incited an acceleration of the
extermination measures. Some make the claim
the Holocaust never occurred; equally monstrous
are those who try to salve their consciences by
placing Jews today in the boots of the Nazis.
Yours faith fully,
N Nelkon, Department of Computing.
Free Radicals
Dear Bill,
I was disappointed to read in last week's FELIX
Andrew Allum's insult to freedom of speech and
IC students as a whole.
I agree that the use of the label 'Water Polo
Club' as a cover should not have been made. The
underlying issue is not the method used to attract
the normally impartial IC students to the problem
of student loans. Rather, it is how to organise
them into a coherrent group capable of defending
the right of higher education to everyone.
To this effect Julian Moore seems to have put
a lot of effort into organising people with the
common conviction that student loans are unjust
and do not work in practice (eg Sweden).
If the government wants to pass legislation on
any issue you have the right to oppose it by
demonstrating, writing to your M P or lobbying
Parliament. This is the essence of democracy.
Instead Andrew Allum seems to beleive i n
apathy and the Tet-the-government-do-what-
they-want' attitude. This is not only dangerous
(what becomes of democracy without cynicism
towards its leaders?) but it is also an insult
towards the (supposedly) intelligent student
population of IC. I do not believe Andrew A l l u m
has the right to talk about his fellow students as
'innocent' just because they disagree with h i m .
Would D e Gaule have been overthrown
without the initial reaction of the French
students?
I C U was and is apolitical. However, it is the
students of tomorrow who will decide the future
political trend of I C U and certainly not Andrew
Allum who seems to be more apt at condemning
students w h o believe in building a more equal,
caring and fair country.
Lastly, how can Andrew Allum state with such
conviction that 'most IC students are generally
proud of our student union' without some kind
of 'logical' backup?
Stephen McKeever, DOC II.
PS. Andrew, would you be so apolitical if you
lived in Poland?
So in Love?
Dear Bill,
This has been a busy week, but I felt that I had
to write this letter in order to thank the members
of Imperial College for saving me a lot of hard
work. Normally my rounds of the universities
take up most of my time, with all those young
folk i n such large numbers and at such close
quarters. Students usually rush me off my feet,
falling in and out of love faster than y o u can say
' H I V . But IC is an exception and provides me
with a nice place to sit down and rest my wings
on February 14.
All my love,
Cupid.
February 17 1989 FELIX
Page 3

