Travel
77/1 INDEPENDENT
E L L E R T R A V E L L E R T R A V E L L E R T R A V E L L E R T R A V E L L E R T R A V E L L E R T R A V E L L E R T R A V E L L E R T R A V
Cappadocia
Cappadocia is situated virtually in the middle of Turkey, on the Central
Anatolian Plateau that makes up most of Asia Minor. The area known
as Cappadocia roughly fills a triangle of 200-300 square miles between
the towns of Nigde, Kayseri and Nevsehir. Eons ago the now extinct
volcanoes of Hasari Dagi and Eriyes Dagi covered the whole are with a
deep layer of tufa, a soft stone of solidified mud, ash and lava. Over the
ages since the rivers of the region have scoured canyons and gulleys
through the soft and porous stone and the elements have eroded it into
fantastic crags, turrets, stalagmites and cones, creating a vast outdoor
display of stone sculptures in an incredible vareity of shapes and colours.
The cone is the most common
f o r m i n C a p p a d o c i a ' s lunar
landscape, many of them more than
a hundred feet tall, some in groups
and others standing alone like
eccentric obelisks. The predominant
colour i n some areas is ochre or
umber, while i n others it may be
ashen of even salt white. What
nature has left undone in terms of
fantastic sculpture, m a n has
completed. For thousands of years
the C a p p a d o c i a n s have been
carving nouses a n d places of
worship out of the rock cones,
leaving behind whole rock villages
and some of the finest examples of
Byzantine art in the world. Today,
the inhabitants of the region still for
the most part live i n their rock
houses, perhaps with a modern
extension. Cappadocia is only a
twelve hour coach journey from
Istanbul, so it is within easy reach
even for the Inter-Railer, and it
provides an excellent oppourtunity
to see a landscape unparalleled for
its strange beauty.
Goreme
Goreme is one of the best places
to base a visit to the region; its a
small rock village i n the centre of
one of the best landscapes, a rolling
plain covered in thousands of pink
cones that glow in the late afternoon
sun. The village itself has several
little pensions with rooms carved
out of the cones, and even a couple
of restaurants i n rock houses. In
fact, one of the restauranteurs has
a habit of dragging his guests off to
a genuine Turkish nightclub, where
you can see a room full of men
watching a single woman sing -
quite a n experience if y o u r
companions decide to teach the
locals a few Red Wedge songs at the
same time.
At the centre of the village is a
Roman tomb constructed in a cone,
with two columns dangling in mid
air from the side, the bottoms
having eroded away. Nearby is
Goreme National Park, where in a
single valley there are collected
some of the finest examples of the
Fairy Chimneys near Zelve
Rock House, Goreme
Cappadocian churches. Amongst
the churches there is also a refectory
carved out of the hill, seats and table
sculptured from the room. The
finest church is the Tokali church,
with a vaulted interior and beautiful
frescoes o n a blue background.
In the valleys around Goreme
there are many goat tracks, along
which one can spend an afternoon
wandering through the landscape.
Amongst the cones are a few
deserted churches, with fragments
of frescoes remaining o n the wall,
sun bleached with time.
Kaymakli and Derinkuyu
On the road between Nevsehir
and Nigde are the underground
cities of Kaymakli and Derinkuyu.
Here, the tufa has remained
uneroded and the landscape is flat,
but this has not prevented the ever
active Cappadocians from carving
away at the soft rock. Underneath
the plain they have carved out
whole cities from the tufa, some
going as deep as eight storeys below
the surface. It is believed that there
are more than twenty of these cities
underneath the surrounding plain,
but only two have been excavated
and opened to the public.
Both cities are pretty similar,
corridors and narrow staircases
connecting rooms i n a maze that
goes deeper and deeper into the
ground. Some of the passageways
are lit and signposts indicate the
way out; Kaymakli even has an
u n d e r g r o u n d cafe! T h e more
adventurous can take a torch with
them and explore the unlit caves,
that are reputed to extend for miles
under the tufa. Littered all over the
cities are huge millstones that were
used by the inhabitants to block the
passageways against invaders.
Probably the best experience of all
is to stand at the bottom of the air
vent o n the eighth level of
Derinkuyu and feel the cold air
rising up the vent around oneself.
Zelve
Zelve is the most intact of the rock
villages, basically because it was
deserted i n 1950 due to rock falls.
The village has now been opened up
as a museum of what the rock
villages used to look like, before the
modern extensions were built. The
village is situated i n a natural
amphitheatre at the junction of a
valley and three canyons, the cliff
faces of which are riddled with the
openings of churches and houses.
The valleys and houses are probably
the most typical i n Cappadocia;
cones piled on cones up the side of
the canyons, each cone filled with
the windows of the now deserted
houses. Most of the houses can be
explored, the old monastery being
quite a feat, carved as it is out of a
sheer cliff. The village also contains
the only carved mosque i n the
region.
Nearby are the Fairy Chimneys;
some of the most spectacular forms
in the area. A group of phallic cones
shaped like some weird fungus
thrust from the dusty plain. The
soil, although it looks barren,
produces abundant grape vines,
from which the local wine is made,
which is surprisingly good.
Paul Barton
Page 4 FELIX February 17 1989

