Felix
Health Centre
The doctors in the Health Centre seem to have only one thing on their
mind, if the letters pages this week are to be believed. Unfortunately, over
the past year I have heard numerous stories of female students who are
bombarded with detailed and irrelevent questions about their sex life
whenever they visit the doctors.
The problem is not confined to females. One male friend of mine took
to the Health Centre with a very simple ailment and faced a barrage of
very personal and entirely unnecessary questions. He was so upset by
this that he climbed off the couch and stormed out of the surgery.
I know that not all of the doctors at the Health Centre are to blame but
there can really be no excuse for subjecting students to this sort of
inquisition.
It seems that some doctors in the Health Centre are sicker than their
patients.
Jewish Society
I was saddened to hear of the attacks made against the Jewish Society
earlier this week. Posters were burned and anti-Jewish slogans ('f *ck the
Jews') daubed along the walkway. The attacks were as childish as they
were offensive. It is ironic that an incident such as this should occur in
the run up to Imperial College's International Week.
Manifestos
The deadline for Sabbatical election manifestos has been put back a week
to Monday February 27th. Manifestos should be handed in to the FELIX
Office by 10.00am accompanied by a photograph, if you wish one to be
printed. Late manifestos will not be accepted. Manifestos should be
submitted on a single side of A4 paper and should be handwritten or typed,
double spaced. A maximum of 300 words will be allowed. Overlong
manifestos will be cut at the 300th word. Candidates will not be allowed
to proof-read their own manifestos but FELIX staff will ensure that they
are printed exactly as written.
Publicity
Any sabbatical candidates who have not yet seen me about publicity should
do so today. I will be available this weekend to assist with the production
of posters and leaflets; please see me to book a time when you will be
guaranteed complete privacy within the FELIX Office
We will be printing election publicity on Monday and Tuesday of next
week and all artwork should be completed by these dates. Any copy for
typesetting should be handed in today by 10.00am.
Credits Lots of thanks to Andy Clarke, Sumit Guha, Steve Meyfroidt, Sez
Wilkinson, Dave Smedley, Wendy Kite, Rob Davison, Doug King, Paul Barton,
Andy Bannister, Jason Lander, Simon Bradshaw, Adam Harrington, Wouter
van Hulten, Ramin Nakisa, Neil Motteram, Noel Curry, everyone who
contributed to the International Week feature, Walter, Wouter van Hulten, Rose
Atkins and Dean Vaughan for being cheerful when everyone else had given
up, IC Rag and SF Soc for collating last week. Apologies to IC Choir who did
finally come and collate last week.
AR.E EVEIJ voofi-se'
W H 6 R . E . A ^ f . ? WW A T w
S m a l l a d s
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Imperial College Union
Socialist Workers Student Soc.
Wed 22 Feb—Racism: What it is
and how to fight it. Wed 1
Mar—Why human nature doesn't
make socialism impossible. Wed
8 Mar—The Palestinian struggle
today. Wed 15 Mar—Why Russia
isn't socialist. All meetings in the
Green Committee Room, Union
Building at 1.15pm.
FOR SALE
• Ford Escort. Tax and Mot, very
reliable. £250. Contact A Bamford
(int 5131).
PERSONAL
•Tell Sid! You know it makes
sense?
• Vote Joe!
• R.I.P.(?) Soc. The new breed of
Holbein deviants.
• R.I.P.f?) Soc—for party games
before the sage and onion.
• R.I.P.(?) Soc—Like 'em ripe.
• Bored of veggies? Try a stiffy.
Marrows aren't more fun.
• R.I.P.(?) Soc makes the Earth
move.
• Womble the QT, wave the air
with IC.
• Do you get aroused by
watching Frankenstein movies?
Do you visit museums just to see
the mummies? Then why not
join R.I.P.(?) Soc. It might be just
up your street...!
• A h zumba zumba zumba
zumba zumba zumba zumba
yech.
• Felicity I love it when your
angry.
• How many sabbaticals does it
take to change a lightbulb?
•What was Chas Brereton doing
in STOIC with a video?
• Ask Ian Morris for the latest
disgusting joke.
•To the girl with the blue hat.
Will you marry me - Freddy.
• Aliens from the planet Zog
/ I T S . F f c A a t f c !
W H O AAA X , f H E M ? \
I YottjVvmfiK-FOAte , K CAT
I JlO A CAR.Too|0 STWf.'
C A T )
>
-
> C A M o o t O ?
have taken the serial number of
my camera. Flight 207 from
Gatwick will be replaced by a
replica on March 17th in mid-
flight. The CIA will investigate
but will cover up the evidence in
favour of the left wing anarchist
takeover. See my ad in the
London Evening Standard
12.01.89. The signal is fading.
Zev Red Jacket fading out.
• And now the end is near and
so I face the final curtain. Drinks,
I've had a few but then again too
few to mention. There were
times, I'm sure you knew, when
I bit off more than I could chew,
but thats all over now that I have
started eating in the snack bar.
•Go get 'em floyd.
• SW you drive me crazy from
the man with two heads and the
red walking stick.
• Andrew Allum is a communist
spy.
•To the man who pasted up the
letters page and forgot the
rotring. May peckery dung fall
on your head.
•Turnips get your turnips here.
Only 20 pence a pound. Buy
one, get two free.
• Bob Dylan fan club requires
second member. Contact FELIX
Office for sympathy.
• A n d all because he loved
• Professional photographer
needs female model for calendar
project. Contact Doug King via
FELIX Office.
• So I was wrong. Big deal -
Charles Darwin.
•Dear Landlord please don't put
a price on my soul. My burden is
heavy, my dreams are beyond
control. When that steam boat
whistle blo-o-o-ws I'm going to
give you all I've got to give and I
do hope you receive it weeeell
depending on the way you feel
that you live.
• Felicity you're so full of
electricity. Its quite an
eccentricity. Let's do something
illicitly. O h Felicity.
L A S A G N E M»C COPPER.
1 N E E P T o H K k e A
SoR.iMt, -3bKE K S O V A T
February 17 1989 FELIX Page 5

