No 193
F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
Monday, 30th S E P T E M B E R . 1963 Price 4d
WELCOME FRESHERS
Message from the
President
The last ten years have seen an intensive development of the
College which is unprecedented in the history of any educational
institution in the country. Many acres of land in the heart of London
have been vacated and made available to the College ; some seventeen
million pounds worth of buildings have been erected ; the number
of staff and students has almost doubled. These are bare facts which
cannot attempt to do justice to a programme in which I.C., as the
spearhead of a national effort to expand and improve scientific educa-
tion, has been transformed almost beyond recognition.
This expansion has by no
means been confined to the aca-
demic departments—indeed the
need for providing numerous
other amenities has been clearly
rocognized from the start. Hos-
tels, refectories, playing fields
and so on have been accorded
high priority.
The central figure in this im-
mense effort is you, the student,
and the central problem your
education. Society holds you and
your ability in high esteem, invest-
ing heavily in your education,
sparing itself no effort and refus-
ing to offer anything but the best.
It has provided you with all the
facilities you could reasonably ask
G O R D O N
L O W E S
The ideal Sports Shop
GOOD DISCOUNTS FOR
A L L I C MEMBERS
21-23 Brampton Arcade,
Knhjhtsbridge, S.W.3
KEN 4494/5/6
for, and done this with unques-
tioning faith and confidence.
All this will be of no avail if
you, as an individual, do not hold
the same high opinion of yourself
as society does. You must have
confidence in your own ability,
for without it you won't achieve
anything worthwhile in any of the
circles in which you will be mov-
ing. One can take a horse to
the water, but if it does not be-
lieve it has the ability to drink,
will not do anyone, least of all the
horse much good.
Tfiis is the more necessary be-
cause at I.C. you will not be
spoon-fed. You are left, as you
should be, to develop your own
interests and to fend for yourself
in all that you do. In your depart-
ment you must have self-confi-
dence to apply yourself methodi-
cally and discerningly to your
work. And in other fields you
must have the self-confidence to
play an active part.
All the facilities of the Union
are at your disposal—it is your
Union, as it is your College. I
urge you to learn what it has to
offer and how it operates. If you
develop an active interest in any
one of its multiferous activities
you will soon come to feel much
more at home in the College.
The Union has grown stronger
and more diversified within the
College, but there is still much
room for improvement. I hope
you will make your own contri-
Cont on page 4
Royal Visit Oct Sth
On Tuesday, 8th October, at 2.45 p.m. Her Royal Highness
Princess Margaret, accompanied by Lord Snowdon, will visit the
College to open The South Sides Hall of Residence Building.
On her arrival, Her Royal Highness will be received by the
Chairman of the Governing Body, Sir Roger Makins and the Rector,
Sir Patrick Linstead. After presentations Her Royal Highness will
proceed by the central entrance to the main Dining Room.- There
three brief speeches will be made, Her Royal Highness officially
declaring the-building open. After this short ceremony the Princess
will make a short tour of the Gallery Floor of Falmouth Hall, during
which she will be shown Student Rooms on one of the staircases, and
then the Common Rooms on the Ground Floor.
After this tour Her Royal Highness will leave the building unveil-
ing a plaque commemorating the occasion just outside the main
entrance before briefly visiting the Civil and Electrical Departments.
She will then have tea at 170 Queens Gate.
350 guests have been invited to attend the opening ceremony
ing the arrival and departure of Her Royal Highness in Princes
students who usually frequent the Common Rooms will be present
in reasonable numbers. There will also be opportunities of watch-
including about 75 students. During the tour it is hoped that those
Gardens and it is hoped that as many as possible will turn up there,
STOP PRESS
TUES. O C T . 8th W I L L B E A H A L F H O L I D A Y

