I.C. I E BUDGET : BEES TO GO UP
At yesterday's Refectory Conmittee meeting it' was decided to raise the price of beer
by Id a pint from the end of this month, to absorb Increase costs0 The new price w i l l
be 2/3d a pint, 3/2d a half-pint in Southside and 2/'ld ^. pint_) l / l d a half™pint i n the
Union« The snack bar service i n Southside at lunch 'time is to be moved as soon as
possible to the present main dining hall l a Southside, with the waitress service facilities
transferred to the present snack bar. At the same time the snack bar facilities w i l l be
expanded to include Union-top-refectory-type food arid possibly salads as well. The
present main dining hall w i l l continue to be used for waitress served meals i n the evening
From the beginning of next session the present Southside snack bar w i l l be used as a
coffee bar for an experimental period of four weeks.. It w i l l be open from 7 p.m. to
10.30 p.m. and is mainly intended for overseas students who want somewhere to gather and
drink non-alcoholic drinks,
AMERICAN EMBASSY DEMONS"RATION
As far as FELIX can ascertain, two I.C. students were arrested at last Sunday's
demonstration outside the American Embassy^ One was charged with assaulting a police
officer, both are out on b a i l . 'A third students went to hospital with injuriese
SUCCESS AHEAD : IDOLS FIOCIING TO THE ALBERT
The Donovan Carnival Concert is a sell-out,, Only about 20 of the ^323 tickets are
left and a profit of £1#500 i s assured. Latest news is that for copyright reasons the
BBC w i l l not be allowed to film i t . It is believed that Esther and Abi Ofarim w i l l make
an appearance though not perform. It is reliably reported that Ringo Starr and his wife,
Jane Asher, Paul McCartney, Mickie Most and Hatti Jacques-will also be there,,
Over £3»000 has already been colleoted, of y/hich Guilds have netted over £1,600*
Mech Eng I have won the Guilds inter-departmental prize and have been given £16 from
Carnival funds and another sum by Guilds Union« The; performance of RCS is disappointing,
they have not been out collecting once this term0
REDMAYNE'3 RIOT ACT
At the next Union General Meeting FELIX ex-editor Rory Redmayne w i l l propose a
motion proposing the abandonment of UGMs, replacing them with joint meetings of Council
and'year reps. The motion also has a clause i n i t proposing that the motion be assumed
passed i f the meeting does not raise a quorum,,
SPORTS CENTRE DEL/ YEP
, Due to various delays, i t now seems that the building of the Sports Centre w i l l not
be finished until mid-October, It had been hoped i t would be ready by August.
It is s t i l l expected that work on Linatead Hall w i l l be finished by 1st May,
DUPLICATED SUNRAY?
A certain "Ray Phillips" stood for the Presidency of the Guild of Undergraduates at
Birmingham last Thursday. In his election manifesto he claims to have doubled the turn-
over of records of the Juke Box. HE WONU
NO CENSORSHIP AT I.C.
It appears that the visit by Dow Chemicals to the College, scheduled for last
Monday, was not cancelled by the College, as reported in the main issue, but by Dowa
However, i t seems that the v i s i t would have been cancelled by the College had not Dow
beaten them to i t .
Phone calls from the Press to the Union asking for representatives of the Peace
Action Group have been transferred to Miss Nolan, I.C. Press Officer, This is not a
College plot to censor the Peace Action Group, but was done on the initiative of Mrs. Robb
in the Union Office.
SHIFS OF POWER AND INFLUENCE IN FELIX
At yesterday's FELIX staff meeting i t was decided that Paul Heath, at present News
Editor, would be Editor for the f i r s t term next year. He w i l l probably be followed by
John Sommer. Assistant Editor vd.ll be Mary Efficiency Ford, who of course may be
expected to be the real power behind the front men»
LATE NEWS Editor w i l l be John Probstu Business Manager Chris Sleec Photographic
Editor John Rogers. Dick Middleton may be expected t o bo Editor the year after,
RCS PROPOSED CONSTITUTION CHANGES
At the RCS Union Meeting yesterday an amendment was proposed and passed for the
constitution to read "The objects of the Union shall be0 c „., <
,0 to promote sexual intercourse
among its members," This change has yet to be passed by a second Union Meetings,

