GOTHCIL MEETING - Monday niaht
After a l l , neither the Doors c r the Jefferson .Airplane v/ill. be appearing at I.C. as
they both want £1,000. Jane Pearson and Dermot Gorr were elected to the Union Publication-
Board. Formal reciprocal membership with Herriott Watt University, Edinburgh,was approved.
Approval of £225 expenditure on a new Dyeline Machine, to replace present one in the
Carnival Office which is moribund. Apart from a £50 grant Silwood 21st anniversary ball
must make ends meet. Next session's Commemoration Ball moved to the Royal Lancaster
Hotel, tickets are s t i l l 5 gns, double. One of the.houses of Northside of Prince's garden
is about to be taken over by the college and the,. Welfare Committee are trying to get a
nursery in the basement to look after .20 children of PG's.
SDCSLALR GOODLAD, the founder of Wellsoc has been made a honorary life member of the Union
SHELTER WALKERS
Fancy a quiet country ramble at dead of night? Blisters and sore heels guaranteed.
You should have joined the Anglican Chaplaincy on their walk, in aid of SHELTER, the
campaign for the homeless, last Friday night.' Every walker was sponsored by people pe&ying '
various amounts to SHELTER for each mile covered.
Your two intrepid FELIX men started from Richmond Station about ll.A5p»m., proceeding
at a steady crawl to the nearest pub for a quick pint before time and thus fortified, a
swift 4m.p.h, to Kingston - and on - and on - and on eventually crawl into the Union. Legs
ache and feet sore, feels like we just walked 27 miles. S t i l l , cup of coffee and breakfast
help, more people straggle in about time for bed.
GUILDS HOCKEY TRIUMPHS AGAIN
Guilds beat RCS by 6 goals to I in the intercollegiate Stevenson Cup last Sunday.
Having beaten RSM Lyl earlier i n the season, this means that Guilds have retained the cup
for another season.
This brings a very successful season to a close, Guilds having won ten of their
matches and lost only three. During the season there have been five hat-tricks, showing
Guilds great goal-scoring capacity. It only reamins to win the UL six-a-side tournament
on Wednesday 20th March. N.S.V.
VIETNAM MEETING
A public meeting entitled "Vietnam the social responsibility of science" was held
under the auspices of the I.C. Peace Action Group on Monday. Only about 20 people
bothered to attend and consequently i n waiting for others to come, the meeting started
very late and not everyone had a chance to speak.
Dr. Steven Rose (of Biochemistry) spoke first and dwelt at length upon the affair of
Dow Chemicals (reported elsewhere i n this issue) who make Napalm and defoliants for use
in Vietnam. He said that i t is our responsibility to, as scientists, to explain to other
people that the use of these weapons is wrong and i t is wrong to be associated with them.
Koosis (of Maths) spoke from a more philosophical standpoint. What i s
science? Science has to do things around us. Its real value is to make the people who
study i t better. Therefore we should not associate ourselves with the science used i n
Vietnam as i t was bound to wight heavily on our consciences and certainly make us bad.
Considering the attendance at the meeting, one wonders I.C. really cares about the
use of science i n modern warfare. At least more people could have come from the greatest
scientific college i n the country and l i s t e n . ! to (even i f they didn't agree with) Dr.
fie^lir^73
* Dear Editor,
Many people must have seen the poster Recently much criticism has been leveled against
in Southside urging people not to sign students as a body and the only excuse we can give
the"Dow" petition. Is the author of i s t h e
very weak "Well, i t ' s the minority who are
the poster seriously suggesting that anti-social. "This is no excuse'. This minority i s
we should support and aid the use of being a social menace and v/e must do something to
Napalm i n Vietnam, just to secure jobs stop them.
for British people? I think that i s an I attended the Vietnam demonstration on Sunday
outrageous display of selfishness... 17th March for what I thought v/ould be a peaceful
He would not have put this notice protest until, at least, the American Embassy was
up i f the Napalm was to be used on reached. However during the march innocent by-
British men, women and children. One standers were victimised. Among other events car
can only conclude that he considers tyres were let down and shop windows broken i n the
Vietnamese people expendable. crowd in my vicinity alone and since the demonstr-
Third Year Zoologist. ation was so large, I hate to think of what else
I would prefer letters to be SIGNED, went on. Everyone there must be held responsible
please, with a NAME. I have received for the violence against American possessions, but
a further letter in support of the this futile and wanton violence and destruction
anti-Dow petition, with 17 signatures, against individuals was not expected. Demonstrations
Late News Ed. are valuable mouthpiece for public opinion and they
I.C. PEACE ACTION GROUP would like a l l must not be misused like this.
their petitions handed in by Thursday What I saw made me sickl A strong body of opinion
to Southside Rms.621 or 638 or to must condemn this irresponsible minority.,I hope I.G
Phil Painter by Union Rack. oa.n lead opinion in this aspect as i t would be
QUOTE: R0RY REDMAYNE dreadful for this country to lose i t ' s public protes
"Wellsoc is a UFO that landed." t o
the rabble rousing techniques of those who c a l l
SMALL ADS themselves Couirnunists.
Newthiiik""Col^pi"ate April 10th S.S.621. B e f o r e b e i n
S attacked for my views, I must add
IF ANYONE WANTS THESIS OR OTHER that students were not the only ones there, but that
TYPING DONE, PLEASE RING PATSY 2218 i s n o e x c u s e
«
6R 603 5067. Yours W.R. House, Physics I

