4 FELIX 20 M A R C H 1968
CEDITOR'S
o m m e n t
Another term ends, most of the year's activities have finished.
The Union will sink into examination euphoria with the only events
to brea'!: into the monotony of revision (or catching up on a year's
lectures) will be the elections of a few club committees to beat the
May 1st Hall application deadline, the few summer sports clubs, a
couple of bleak issues of FELIX and if everything goes to plan the
first residents will be moving into Linstead and the first student house
and the Sports Centre will come into use. Of course a new executive
and Council will be elected, in fact Barry Sullivan is already President-
elect of Mines, but that doesn't seem as though it will worry many
people, particularly when the present exec won't even put the stu-
dents' views, which they supposedly represent, or provide any leader-
ship, by lobbying their M.Ps., and everybody will have gone home by
the time the President and Secretary are elected.
So what has happened this term? Whilst York and Leicester
have been demonstrating about refectory prices, Aston and Regent St.
Poly have had trouble over representation on their Governing Bodies,
Manchester and Cambridge have demonstrated against members of
the government, and students from all over the country have taken
part in action to oppose the grants cut. what has I.C. done? Corpor-
ately nothing whatsoever, unless you count the passing of two relatively
minor constitutional changes for the first time. I do not have access
to details of all student unions in Britain, but I would hazard a
guess that I.C. is the only major one in the country which does
not have an official policy on the grants issue. Perhaps, as Andy
Jordan says in this issue, it is because we have not for a long time had
to fight for our rights in this College, that people are finding it difficult
to believe that now they must. Or since they are not too hard up at
the moment they think that they will be able to live on a slightly
increased amount in three years time (if not mummy and daddy will
cough up anyway). What happens if mummy and daddy can't afford
it, or decide it's time you supported yourself?
There are many good things about I.C. Union, in fact much can
be compared with the best in the country, the clubs are excellent in
quality, quantity and variety. The social calendar is the best in
London ,and many people put in a lot of work making them so.
Being, like Mr. Kinsella, (see the letters in the last issue) a past chair-
man of a club, I knew this long ago. So do Council, over half of
the student members have held the post of chairman on the equivalent
position in I.C. clubs, whilst most of the rest have been active in
them. The I.C. sports clubs have had a large number of successes this
term, as have many of the other clubs in one way or another, and they
deserve the congratulations of everyone in the College.
However, if the Union does nothing as a body, then interest will
wane not only in the Union itself but in its clubs, which after all are
an integral part of the Union. Judging by the correspondence in the
F B L 1 X letters column and the declining attendance at Union meetings
v-ople are becoming rapidly more and more disillusioned with Union
politics. It should not be necessary to cancel General Studies because
of a Union meeting and it cannot give Mr. McDowall, who arranges
(and cancels) these lectures much comfort to know that his work has
been in vain, especially when much of the failure is due to executive
bungling, as it was on Thursday. When six people cannot arrange
Union meetings so as not to clash, what hope have 3,650 got?
I had always thought that the constituent college presidents sat on
the executive to ensure co-ordination between our four Unions and
t6 make sure that the interests of the three were not in opposition to
those of the one. Apparently I was wrong. By all means let us keep
the tripartite structure, it is a fine tradition, and as such should not be
discarded quite so carelessly as some would, but when there is a
clash of interests I hope that it will not again be E C ' s which will
suffer.
Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Tel. KEN 2963
Edtor : DAVID COOPER
Asst. Editor : John Mullaly
News Editor : Far. Heath
Features: John S>:..mer, Dick
Middleton
Sports Editor : Phil H^pwood
Business Manager : Mary Ford
Late News Editor : Dick Reeves
Advertising Manager :
John Probst
Sales Manager : Chris Slee
Production Manager:
Pete Chapman
Photographic Editors : John
Lanjley and John Rogers
What's On Editor : Pat Shanahan
Cartoonist: Stuart Senior
Posters : Pete Brown
Duplicating Service : Paul Miller
With : Patrick Rotheram, Andy
Jordan, Ken Simpson, Anne
Wheatley, Anita Furniss, Rory
Redmayne, Colin Broad, Steve
Chittock, Keith Rowan, Jen,
Caroline and Patsy.
Advertising Agency :
Educational Publicity (Partners)
Ltd. CHA 6081
The editor reserves the right to
withhold all or part of any letters
from publication. The views ex-
pressed in these letters are not
necessarily those of the editor.
C R A P ?
Dear Sir,
May I first commend you on
your attempts to bring the de-
crepit union to life and on your
coverage of the grants campaign.
Having done that, can I now dare
to call you apathetic and paro-
chial and express the hope that
this will be printed.
For us, students, our Union is
important, our grants more so,
but do these topics deserve as
much as half of the space in
" F E L I X " as they have been
getting in the past two issues ?
Should not a student newspaper
have more comment and criti-
cism on topics of a slightly wider
nature ? While I cannot presume
to tell you what your job is I do
feel that " FELIX " can be im-
proved still more than it has been
in the past.
The last issue could have had
a comment on the recent contro-
versial, effectively racialist, im-
migation bill; especially since
there is such a large number of
coloured students in the College.
It is seldom that one finds other
universities mentioned in
FELIX : surely the recent events
at Leicester and Sussex Universi-
ties should have elicited a critical
word from you. Earlier this ses-
sion you reported a decrease in
the applications to IC and men-
tioned the swing away from
science, but you seem oblivious
of the publication of the Dainton
Report which could have a con-
siderable bearing on the future
scientific and technological com-
munity of this country. The
South Kensington bye-election is
soon to be held : the nominations
were filed last week but even
though we live in this area
FELIX has nothing to say on the
subject. With so much space
devoted to " in " union politics
not more than ten societies were
mentioned in the last issue : is
one to conclude that the other
70 odd are largely dormant ?
These were a few of the random
topics that spring to mind which
could have found space in
FELIX. Surely your staff of
20-plus can do better.
I do not know what you think
the aim of a student newspaper
is but may I voice what I feel
could contribute to making
FELIX a more lively newspaper:
it would have the following
broad categories of articles:
(i) College activities: These
could include reports on impor-
tant happenings during the fort-
night—cultural, social and sport;
comments, reports, etc. on the
doings of the Union; information,
on future events.
(ii) External university events
and happenings: Presumably you
get newspapers from all universi-
ties in the country and some
from abroad.
(iii) Political comment on topi-
cal issues.
(iv) Reviews of plays, films,
ballet, opera, etc. After all we do
live in London.
(v) Book reviews.
(vi) Original articles of a liter-
ary nature.
I hope you do not take this to
be a belligerent letter for it is
merely a suggestion on how
FELIX could be more lively
and not so introspective. The vast
majority of students do not con-
sider the Union or their status as
students as the be-all and end-all
of their lives.
Yours faithfully,
RAKESH MOHAN.
MIKE
UNITED
WE STAND
Mike—our wandering mascot.
(The right way up this week)
Sir.
I should like to thank r^li*
for their dramatic expose of the
reasons for the repeated disap-
pearance of Mike. It must now
be quite apparent to WHO that
the sky hooks shown in the last
issue to be the sole support cf
our mascot are quite inadequate;
let us hope that on recovery Mike
will in future be kept in its right-
ful place on it? plinth.
Yours faithfully,
RODERICK J. R E D M A Y N E .
Apology
Unfortunately, due to lack of
space in tl is issu®, several letters
have not been published: These
may be seen on request.
Recent editions of FELIX have
contained much copy concerning
the apathy and apparent disillu-
sionment by many IC students
towards the parent Union and its
officers. From this and the poor
attendance at Union meetings, it
i:. reasonable to conclude that
something is seriously wrong with
.he organization and structure of
student activities within the Col-
lage as a whole. In a recent is-
sue, your correspondent " Apa-
thetic Chemist" beneath a
veneer of frivolity, managed to
point out several important con-
tributory factors which have
helped to bring aboui the present
situation.
However, I feel that the
strength end impact of these fac-
tors, such as the lack of aims and
of policies, depends to a large ex-
tent on the persona'ities and
" political" climate prevailing
within the Union at any one time,
and cannot, therefore, be re-
garded as the correct a agnosis to
preclude any " cure." Certainly,
as a postgraduate student with
past experience of stud ant life at
University College, London,
which is comparable in size and
status to IC. I suspect that the
reasons for this apathy lie in the
structure of the College and are
threefold in number : —
1. The existence of the three
constituent college Unions serves
only to dilute and weak?;-: the par-
ticipation of students in Union
affairs. Much of the available
talent for organisation and leader-
ship is creamed off by *he Col-
leges and the rank and file o: stu-
dents have insufficient time,
energy or inclination to follow
both of the available be cues.
2. In a univarsi y sollege
which is so predomincntty con-
cerned with science and 'cino-
logy and lacks a broad range of
academic disciplines amongst stu-
dents, the standard of debate and
discussion is bound to reflect this.
Whilst the individuals may be of
the highest standing and repute,
the spectrum of the College is
narrow and restrained and expert
opinion whether from the staff
or students is not available on
many matters, thereby reducing
the authority with which the Col-
lege speaks.
3. The division of the College
campus into segments, each sepa-
rated from the other by main
roads, is a deterrent to student
movement and whilst it would be
difficult to prove, it could well
partially explain poor attendance
at various functions. Certainly a
united campus helps to give stu-
dents a sense of identity and be-
longing.
What then can be done about
this? Presumably the negotiations
with the Architectural Association
concerning their admission to the
College is the forerunner of in-
creasing academic choice. Also it
is conceivable that traffic manage-
ment or upper pedestrian circula-
tion could unite the College
campus at some time in the
future. But both of these solu-
tions require time, and the more
important question is what can be
done now? In answer to this I
would suggest that one thing can
be carried out immediately and
may be the most advantageous
step of all—abolish the constitu-
ent college Unions and concen-
trate the student energies ;.nto the
one that counts, the main College
Union. Certainly, it is by IC
Union and not by C&G, RSM or
RCS Unions that ICST is fudged
by and listened tc in other quar-
ters.
W. A . i 1 .KEE, F.G.

