I
20 M A R C H 1968 F E L I X
NO NEPOTISM
IN BEIT
Dear Sir,
In Andy Jordan's column Mar.
6th, he comments on the alloca-
tion of Warden's places in halls
of residence. It seems that Mr.
Jordan is accusing me of using
these places to put members of the
Gliding Club into Beit Hall. He
explicitly says " But it is bound to
cause speculation when certain
members of these clubs got into
these halls when they were not
selected by the hall committees."
The previous sentence makes it
clear that he is referring, inter
alia, to the Gliding Club and Beit
Hall.
So far as Beit Hall is concerned,
this alleaation is quite untrue.
The Warden of Beit Hall has
five places at his disposal. From
the records of the last five years
it is apparent that they have
generally been filled with " de-
serving cases," on medical or
other grounds. When these places
have not been required for this
purpose, they have simply been
filled from the waiting list. Out
of the 25 students involved over
this period, only one has been a
member of the gliding club (two
years ago) and membership of the
club was not the primary reason
for admitting him. At present
none of the Warden's places are
occupied by members of the
Gliding Club. Those members of
the club resident in Beit Hall
must therefore have been chosen
by the Selection Sub-Committee
or, in the case of freshers, have
been recommended by their de-
partments. In this hall, selection
of residents is genuinely in the
hands of the student members of
the Selection Sub-Committee. I
retain my power of veto, but I am
glad to say that it has not been
necessary to exercise it for some
years.
The several members of the
Gliding Club in Beit Hall may
well have put this hall as their first
choice on the application form,
but it is clear that they are admit-
ted on their own merits. This
suggests that the club contains
some rather worthy members,
who do not have to depend on the
nepotism of the Warden, as Mr.
Jordan would have his readers
believe. In this context, is it not
a Good Thing for the Warden to
share an interest with some of his
student residents?
Now that Mr. Jordan is aware
of the facts, I expect him to re-
tract his allegation and render
an apology.
Yours faithfully,
F. G. IRVING
Andy Jordan writes
It is unpleasant to find that one
has been dishonest in effect if not
in fact, especially in print. My
article was intended to be an in-
dictment of the system and not of
a person. I therefore apologise
to Mr. Irvine for anv personal
offence
ANTSOC
Dear People,
Who is Sidney Steveacre? Well,
we don't know him and you don't
know him—that's the trouble
with this College and lots of other
Colleges. Sid tries to study; he
doesn't join many clubs because
he feels they're cliquish. Sidney
hates bureaucratic organization
men—that's the people who try to
run him through the club system.
There are more than 100 clubs
in IC run by RCS, C&G, RSM,
RCC, 'SCC, and A C C and co-
ordinated by IC council.
Sid feels that the club organi-
zers spend more time organizing
people and clubs and playing
petty plastic politics than actu-
ally doing things which Sid and
his friends enjoy.
Sid is in Ant-Soc, the old Anti-
Societv (formed from the still
older SAM). AntSoc meets every
day over Mooney meals in the
snack bar. AntSoc has no special
officers because that would be
hypocritical. Chairmen are auto-
matically appointed at AntSoc un-
called meetings.
A new AntSoc is about to
spring up. This is a positive Ant-
Soc which is revolutionally op-
posed to the club system and in
fact almost any institution. Ant-
Soc is especially interested in the
New Anti-University just opened
in Shoreditch.
GEORGE ASSIMAKIS, Phys 2
PIERS CORBYN, Phys 3
PHIL PAINTER, Phys 3
PETE WATTS Chem Eng 2
An Antsoc representative in the
near future is going to Anti-
University.
PREJUDICE
AND LATE NEWS
Sir,
I did not attend the Vietnam
Teach-In reported in the last
edition of Felix Late News, but
from experience of others I have
been to before I know well
enough the force and fury with
which both sides put forward
their views. However, your Late
News Editor described this Teach-
in in terms which were more bla-
tantly prejudiced than any I have
heard in previous debates on this
subject.
Your editor reported the argu-
ments of the South Vietnamese
Minister clearly and in some de-
tail, but of his opponent's speech
he said only the following, " He
juggled quotations without too
much regard for who actually
said them, and juggled figures to
entertain us. This was no rea-
soned argument, but an effective
outpouring of scorn and preju-
dice."
I should prefer to judge for my-
self whether or not this interpre-
tation is justified by reading a
synopsis of the speech written as
sympathetically and in as great
detail as the report of the Mini-
ster's was.
An indispensible duty of any
newspaper which claims to be
more than a partisan tract is to
give opposing views with equal im-
partiality, and this Felix Late
News has failed to do.
ANDREW STEWART
Elec. Eng. P.G.
Dick Reeves, Late News Editor,
replies
Being neither the Lord Chief
Justice nor a Saint I have neither
the duty nor the ability to be en-
tirely impartial, Mr. Stewart.
Nevertheless, I am rather proud
of the article, for which I per-
sonally am responsible as being a
fair report of the proceedings : I
am afraid Mr. Zak's speech was
actually as I described it. I was
there.
I am not anxious to discuss the
Vietnam issue itself in the late
news columns, rather I wished to
report the phenomenon of a suc-
cessful teach-in at I.C. I assure
you I can write in a much more
prejudiced fashion when the oc-
casion demands.
NLF at
Polsoc?
Dear Sir,
I must make one correction to
your article on our Vietnam
meeting on March 5th. This is
that I.C. Political Societies Coun-
cil is hoping to arrange for a
spokesman from the South Viet-
namese National Liberation
Front, not the North Vietnamese
as you said in your article.
As one of the questions at the
meeting revealed, the British
Government used to have a per-
manent ban on the issue of visas
to South Vietnamese N.L.F.
spokesmen—in fact, this was the
statement which we received
from the Home Office last No-
vember in answer to our request
for a visa for this meeting. We
organised a lobby of M.P.'s and
as a result of their pressure on
the Home Office, we received a
letter from the Home Secretary
to the effect that " there is no
policy of automatic refusal." It
transpired at a meeting which we
had with Home Office officials in
February that they were chiefly
concerned to see that an N.L.F.
spokesman did not go from our
meeting to another .such as a dis-
orderly rally in Trafalgar Square.
At the time of writing, we have
received no reply to our requests
to various N.L.F. delegations in
Europe for a spokesman. When
we do, we will approach the
Home Office for a visa, for a
meeting probably for May.
Yours sincerely,
MIKE BAILEY.
Secretary, Pol. Soc. Council.
1
forban
fitting
on a
column
Are you squatting comfortably? Then I'll begin.
Once upon a time, long ago, in a land few people remember, one
could protest without the Establishment rising up in arms : without
Cecil King uncovering his Northcliffian ambitions : without the Oppo-
sition party opposing you as well. In those days, the opposition party
was a radical party. And then one day, the devil became God and
threw the Tory God from his heaven. And God was righteous,
middle-class and anti-student (if the middle-classes and Duncan Sandys
were). No longer was there a place for the protesters to protest. If
you hated the Americans in Vietnam, the racialism of Rhodesia, the
racialism of Rhodesia, the attacks on the living standards of all but
Robert Maxwell and Swiss bankers, you might as well have joined
the Conservatives as Labour.
So when Harold Wilson and Denis Healey went to Cambridge, the
only apparent form of protest left was used. No one listened to words
now ; an open mouth might foul the Socialist government. I said
Socialist : there must have been many hues of Socialism from Hitler's
national socialism to Karl Marx's.
Before that time, when even your mummies and daddies listened
to stories at other parents' knees, some declared they would fight for
King and Country, decried attacks on Abyssinia, rejected Munich.
They were students. They disagreed with their elders. It may be
argued that history proved them right. Age does not always bring
wisdom.
The second time around, people wrote to the Times : " Our stu-
dents will find that the long-suffering taxpayer will protest successfully
that these are not the sort of person who should have the privilege of
a university education." Patrick Gordon-Walker thought the effect
of student demonstrations on the grants issue was " very grave."
No one had heard him say that the insobriety of Morphy Day would
affect grants. Political undertones of the noise, raised through des-
peration at a political system which suddenly no longer accommodated
all political opinions, gave the signal for a barrage of illogicality
against the students. k
And in the quiet concrete corridors at the foot of Collcutt's
tower, they endlessly discussed apathy and no one cared. They were
scientists; they had chosen interests remote from human situations,
and they did not care about other people's problems. Some cared
but thev did not rebel in Prince Albert's hallowed cloister. They
and their mentors agreed in soft acquiescence. The outside realities
rarely percolated through the glass and cement.
There was, after all, little to rebel about. When the students
wanted a better dialogue with the powers that were, their representa-
tives sat with the Deans' Committee. All were sweetly reasonable.
But some seemed to think that methods unnecessary in their own
monastery were therefore unnecessary outside. The methods used
outside were denounced as the actions of a vocal minority, said to be
unrepresentative of the students as a whole.
But could not this argument be extended to their own exeutive.
Was it representative of students as a whole, this vocal minority?
And were its members really the voice of the people when it seemed
that they could not maintain contact within themselves. The hapless
six arranged for two union meetings not only at the same time as one
another but on the day of two departments' open day. They were to
have organised a meeting of council members with year reps but
unfortunately two-thirds of the year reps were not informed. They
declined to call a council meeting, when so requested by council, on
the grounds that council had nothing to discuss: the next meeting
lasted five hours. In the certain knowledge that no one cared, they
failed unconstitutionally to post Union meeting agendas.
Napoleon did not make Moscow. Art Garfunkel did not make
the Albert Hall. Barbarella Hempeldumpkin did not make the big
time. I did not make Barbarella Hampeldumpkin. This executive
has yet to make ICU tick.
RGperftT

