20 M A R C H . 1968 F E L I X 7
F
B
I
X
1
M
1
U
E
I
With 15 weeks beckoning to be wasted in the forgetting of a
(presumably) traumatic orgy of exams, a holiday, abroad is the?
obvious prospect. There are three possibilities: a stay in Europe,
North America and elsewhere, with elsewhere probably the most ex-
pensive and Europe the cheapest The means of approaching these
possibilities are also three in number: (he hitch-hiking method, the
automobile method (try to ensure that the car belongs to your friend
and not to you), and the public transport method, this last tending to
be rather expensive.
A quick glance through any colour supplement or a hasty leer
at the bikinis etc. of a travel agent's window is enough to make your
choice difficult, are you big enough for the Bahamas?, Malta '68 is the
Med's fun playground, France this Summer? pas de problem, play
cowboys on a dude ranch in Canada, Portugal is generous, which
Greece will you bring back with you ? Nepal gives good vibrations,
Ireland is only two hours away, etc. etc., all these tantalize the
would-be traveller's imagination. However from a student's point of
view there is one hindrance viz. lack of money—never mind a £50
travel allowance. There are some student-orientated agencies—who
frequently advertise in FELIX—for instance Quo Vadis (who take
you as far as " six-day " Israel), continental Minitrips and New
Frontier travel. These are the people to contact for an organised
motor trip, and to give you some idea of the cost, New Frontier
travel gives you 4 weeks in Greece or Turkey for £55. If you can't
dig up the advertisement contact FELIX.
LSEWHERE
Holidays in Europe and North
America are relatively well docu-
mented, holidays elsewhere less
so. A cheap way of seeing a
relatively distant part of the world
is through VSO but this is a
lengthy project. Within the scope
of a summer vacation a few pos-
sibilities (if you can afford them)
spring to mind, Japan for one.
This can be reached via the inter-
nationally known Trans Siberian
Railway or (more cheaply) by
booking into a BUSTA charter
flight. It is, of course, best to ob-
tain a job in Japan before you
get there. India and /or Nepal
may well be the next big tourist
discovery not to mention bonus
spiritual benefits. If you can
travel there unassisted, well and
good. If not Penn Overland trips
will drive you from London to
Calcutta in two months for a large
sum of money—£133 (Penn Over-
land Tours, 122 Knightsbridge,
London). Africa (or a part there-
of) is another largely unexplored
tourist tract and whether you fly
to it. sail to it, or take a Land
Rover, Ethiopia is rumoured to'
be " a good place to stay." At
present, driving there poses prob-
lems since the Sudan refuses to
allow foreigners to drive across
the Sudan-Egypt border. If you
feell ike splashing out £360 you
can take a Trans-Sahara Minitrek
Expedition for all of 34 days
which takes you from Algiers to
Agades and back. Or you can
risk the journey unassisted.
For those restless, footloose,
adventurous nomads among us
whose lust for travel will never be
satisfied, there are further possi-
bilities : Outer Mongolia, Chile
and Australia to name but three.
When, if ever, you get there,
please send FELIX a postcard
about it.
In the meantime do not forget
to take a full supply of ballpoint
pens when travelling through
Russia. These can be sold at ex-
orbitant prices to peasants all
along your route to finance your
journey. The same goes for
lots of other capitalist goods, we
are reliably informed—only, do
not get caught.
AMERICA
Downtown New York by night
It is not too late to jook flights
to America with BUNAC this
year, providing yr u are at pre-
sent a member. Vnyone not at
present a member may only book
flights for the enc of August since
the Internatior ll Air Travel
regulations req lire membership
of an organisat on for six months
to qualify for a charter flight;
Fares are £50 £55 depending on
date and point ~F
departure.
Most relevant information is
available in the BUNAC Flight
Planner 1969 and amended in the
January edition of the BUNAC
Journal.
Although up in price from last
year the Greyhound ticket is still
best value at $99 for the first
month or S132 for two months
unlimited travel on Greyhound
coaches in the USA and Southern
Canada.
They also double as hotel
rooms. These can only be ob-
tained before leaving Britain. An
American Airlines card may be
useful if you are under 22. It
entitles you to travel half price
" standby " on internal flights in
the USA on most major airlines.
More about visiting America
will appear in the first full issue
next term.
For those who prefer to go un-
restricted, Europe is both the
cheapest and the most convenient
place. Hitchhiking, though be-
coming less easy each year, is
very possible though a trifle ardu-
ous; it's also free. France is
reckoned to be difficult (though it
is said that waving a Union Jack
helps,) while Italy is relatively
easy. Ease of hitchhiking in other
countries varies between the two
Russia; the
the Crimea.
Swallow's Nest in
EUROPE
extremes. Where you go depends
on what you want, but in general
France is unrewarding, apart from
(say) Paris, les chateaux de la
Loire, and the South Coast.
Switzerland is very beautiful com-
plete with jangling cows and the
Eiger but tends to be expensive.
Italy particularly the northern
half is a good place to go, also
expensive but contains interesting
historical items viz, the Colliseum
etc., and scenically the Dolomites
in the North East compare very
well with the rest of the Alps. The
three good places in Europe
(leaving aside Scandinavia) are
Austria, Yugoslavia and Greece.
Austria and Yugoslavia are both
cheap, and bought meals are
large. Austria boasts the Tyrol,
and Yugoslavia its Mediterranean
coastline. The inland section of
Yugoslavia is dull, hot and Bel-
grade is particularly unrewarding;
but the coastline scattered with
islands having names such as Krk
and Hvar is well worth a visit.
Hvar is particularly recommen-
ded.
Quite how Greece has changed
under a year of military regime
is difficult to say, but two years
ago it was certainly the best all-
round holiday prospect in Europe,
being cheap, very beautiful, fea-
turing superb bathing, the Acro-
polis, Delphi, Mt. Olympus, and
very friendly people. Added to
this, the islands of Greece with
Crete are also very lovely, with
heaps of white stone masonry
placed at irregular intervals about
them.
If you do not wish to hitch hike
you can drive; this means that
you don't have to carry every-
thing on your back. On the other
hand driving long distances is
very tiring and boring and a com-
bination of hitchhiking and (stu-
dent priced) travel might be pre-
ferable. There are advantages to
both modes of travel. If you drive
get hold of a camping carnet (it
saves money on camp sites) and
A A 3 star insurance is also worth-
while. If yon can manage to ac-
quire them Michelin campsite
guides are very useful and better
than the A A equivalent.
Incidentally if you happen to
pass through Tournus in Central
irrance stop off and buy some
home-made honey there—it is
truly excellent.
G R E E C E and T U R K E Y
34 days
29 guineas
C o a c h C a m p i n g
E x p e d i t i o n
D e p a r t u r e d a t e s :
June 2 6, J u l y 31,
M i s s E . B U N S O M ,
f63, H i l l s R d , C a m b r i -
A CAREER IN
ENGINEERING
ENGINEERING with the Centra! Electricity Generating Board covers a very wide
range from operational and management work in generation, transmission and
construction to pure and applied research. We are looking for high calibre
graduates and post graduates in PHYSICS, MATHEMATICS, CHEMISTRY and
MATERIALS SCIENCE as well as ENGINEERING to fill our vacancies.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS include advanced gas cooled reactors, the 400 kV.
transmission supergrid and 660 megawatt super critical generating units.
Our graduate training schemes are intended for mechanical and electrical
engineers and honours physicists who wish to train for engineering careers in
these and other developments. These lead ultimately to management positions.
GRADUATES ARE REQUIRED FOR RESEARCH work being carried out
into such topics as the following: aerodynamics and fluid flow, plasma physics,
combustion, HV. D.C. and A.C. transmission, stress and vibration analysis, heat
transfer, materials science and reactor physics.
This is a growth industry with excellent salaries and career prospects.
Further details can be obtained
from your Appointments Officer
or from W. H. F. Brooks, Recruitment
and University Liaison Officer,
Sudbury House,
15 Newgate Street,
London, E.C.1.
CENTRAL
ELECTRICITY
GENERATING
BOA!
iiyiliilililMtliHMiOiillliiyiiyiiiniiiiiiililiill! i i j i i i i i l & j j i s

