8 F E L I X
FELIX AMAZING ARTS P A G E FELIX AMAZING ARTS P A G E FELIX AMAZING ARTS PAGE FELIX AMAZING ARTS P A G * FELIX AMAZING ART* fM*.
J O H N
T A L K I N G
John Pes! is compering to-morrow's Charity Concert in the
Albert Hall, at which Donovan is appearing. Last week, Felix
reporter Pat Rotheram spoke to him at his house in Fulham. At
the time he was in bed with bis " third damn cold this winter," feeling
far from scintillating.
U S A & PIRATE EXPERIENCE
John began work as a DJ five years ago. He was in America
doing stations in Texas, Oklahoma, and California. At the time the
Beatles started, he was called upon to be a Beatle expert, " doing
research on the colour of Paul McCartney's eyes, and other vital
issues." When he left America he joined Radio London. After London
closed down, he applied to the BBC, and ended up on " Top Gear."
He finds that working for a Civil Service Organisation can be
frustrating.
" We have to have the records
for the show chosen by Thursday
night, so we can get the morning
orders printed. It takes two pro-
ducers and two secretaries and a
cast of thousands a whole week to
get it together. On the pirates we
used to grab an armload of
records and go down and play
them."
Union red tape
He has strong views on the
musician's union.
"Their insistence on limiting
the amount of needle time avail-
able on BBC destroys creativity,
as groups have to play safe to
survive, even now.
It appears to be an entirely self
destructive organisation, and this
thing about not being able to use
session musicians on recordings is
so ludicrous, it means an awful
lot of musician's union people are
going to be put out of work. Most
of the guys learned to play a bugle
in 1944. They came out of the
army casting around for an occu-
pation and so they joined the
union, and went to play in a pit
orchestra in Workington; and
these are the people who set the
policies: It's living death, really."
Ty rannosaur us
Rex
We talked for a while about Ms
show, and how he picks the
groups to appear on it. His aim
is to place good groups in front
of the public, and get them re-
corded if he can; to get people
listening to their L.P.s, and pos-
sibly to buy litem as well. The
groups on Top Gear do double
John Wesley
Harding
" John Wesley Harding," is, in its own way, as significant a step
for Bob Dylan, as Sergeant Pepper was for the Beatles. Both albums
contain a good deal that owes nothing to their predecessors; both
were, at the time of their issue, unique in one or other of their
aspects. Yet while Sgt. Pepper was the peak of a process of increasing
sophistication in Lennon and McCartney, the new L.P. by Dylan
represents a definite break with his earlier work. It is notable for its
lack of passion; for the short anecdotal style of each song; for the
restrained and uniform backing. Furthermore it is notable for the
way it blends the idioms of " folk-rock " (to coin a phrase) and
country-and-western music to produce something entirely new. Over-
all it has the relaxing lazy style of country-and-western, but on the
other hand the lyrics are something of an improvement on the " I love
you because" line. Added to this there is the totally distinctive
quality of Dylan's voice and his squeaky coarse harmonica. While
the harmonica is unchanged, Dylan's voice has altered, become softer
and more measured; he tends to " sing " much more than he did
before.
So what does the L.P. contain? Twelve short songs, mostly in
the form of anecdotes or short stories. Some are fanciful, some
serious; they have a kind of Aesop-fable sound to them. The first line
of the first song is enough to emphasise how Dylan's lyrics have
changed : " John Wesley Harding was a friend to the poor." The
aggressive harshness has gone, and what we have instead is a series
of calm, withdrawn, sometimes wry comments on the way people are,
and the way they act. One of the best numbers is " I pity the poor
immigrant " in which, although his terminology is vague (the word
" immigrant " could be possibly replaced by " self-seeker ") the mean-
ing comes across clearly. Incidentally the most tuneful track, it is based
on " Come all ye tramps and hawkers "—a traditional folk ditty.
In two other good songs, " Ballad of Frankie Lee " and " Lonesome
Hobo." Aesop-Dylan goes so far as to hand the listener his moral on a
plate—which makes a change. Throughout, the L.P. is full of nice
touches : lines like " It's not a house, said Judas Priest . . . it's a
home!" and in " Dear Landlord " " I hope that you receive it well,
depending on the way you feel that you five," show that Dylan has
not lost his touch as a lyricist; and the last two numbers, including
" I'll be your baby tonight" with lazy steel guitar, must be the most
relaxing, soothing tracks recorded for some time.
In general, and as an integrated whole, the L.P. is very good, and
well worth buying (if you like that sort of thing). No one number is
outstanding; they should be all heard together. Superficially very
simple, it is the most mature thing Dylan has done. How much he has
been affected by the accident in which he broke his neck, is impossible
to say, but his first recordings, eighteen months later, have been worth
waiting for,
JOHN M U L L A L Y
recording sessions, and John
tlunks that the extra time put into
this slums in the quality of the
music. One of the groups wliich
has appeared on Top Gear is
Tyrwviosaurus Rex.
" I first met Mark when I came
off London. There were four in
the group at one time, but he
finally decided to settle for just
him anil Steve. I thought at the
time that he had a very strange
voice and could really do quite
well if given the exposure.
Group
promotion
Since then I've been working
quite hard on giving them expo-
sure. The extraordinary thing is,
with the pop music business being
what it is, nobody believes I'm
doing it for nothing. You know,
they think I'm either managing
them or I've got some violent
homosexual relationship with
Mark or something. It's very
sick, nobody can accept that any-
one does anything for anyone
without getting paid for it.
" They've got a single coming
out, which I really think can be a
hit record. Mark's voice is so
extraordinary, it's a bit of an
acquired taste. He's written a
song called " Deborah" which
they're going to record tomorrow,
which is fantastic. It's very much
a Tyrannosaurus Rex song which
coincidentally is very commercial.
I'd like to see them on " Top of
the Pops.' Be a change from the
Troggs and people like that—
Dave Dee and his kinky whip
crackings.
" Mostly it's groups I see work-
ing somewhere who are good, or
groups who make nice records.
Sometimes the producer puts
someone on who horrifies me.
Brenton Wood was on one week
and I had to introduce something
called the 'Qogum-Boogum song,'
the thought of which still strikes
me cold. I suppose my greatest
success was with Captain Beef-
heart and his Magic Band, be-
cause their L.P. almost got into
the L.P. charts, which is purely
on the strength of my praying and
promoting them. Nobody else
seemed to be bothered.
" I rate the Incredible String
Band very highly indeed. They're
constantly progressing, you know,
their ideas are getting nicer and
nicer. They've got a new LP
coming out, called ' the Hang-
man's Beautiful Daughter' which
is incredibly good."
Disc Jockey John Peel
Rock Revival
The conversation veered round
to pop music in general. Saying
that f/op music seemed extremely
turgid at the moment, I asked him
about the " rock revival " which
DJ's seemed to be babbling about
every lime I turned on the radio.
Did he consider it as a serious at-
tempt to inject life into the music,
or a serious attempt to sell more
records?
" The rock and roll thing was
part of an entire sub-culture and
you can't recreate the conditions
which gave rise to it in the first
place. You'll end up with an
emasculated version of the
original thing. No, I think popu-
lar music is in the position that
painting was at the turn of the
century. You have one load of
people doing chocolate-box
covers—your Englebert Humper-
dincks. And then you have people
who are trying to do some worth-
while things, without over intel-
lectualising it, which is the great
danger. People listen to some-
thing—Dylan particularly—and
tend to over-interpret it. Even
L.P. sleeves—it's ridiculous, isn't
it? There are many people
making good music now who are
ignored, because the British
public has this great craving for
the mediocre, because they don't
want to become involved. It's not
just the Mums and Dads who are
dashing out to buy Englebert, it's
the kids too, which is rather
dispiriting."
Liverpool poets
While Jolm ate a small meal
including a fork-shattering at-
tempt at some frozen cottage
cheese, we talked about his home
town of Liverpool. He doesn't
get up there now as often as he
would like to . He is a friend of
several of the " Liverpool Poets,"
Bob Dylan Photo courtesy of CBS Records Ltd'.
Adrian Henri, Roger McGough,
Andy Roberts, Mike Evans, and
Mike Hart. I told him I'd heard
Brian Patten at a poetry reading
last year, and been very impres-
sed. John hadn't met him, as
he's moved away from Liverpool.
Seven of them have formed a
group, calling themselves ' The
Liverpool Scene.' Combining
poetry and music, tivey play as a
jug band, a rock band, and with
"Adrian reading pxjetry to Andy's
extended guitar improvisations."
I asked him if he thought tliey
would make a large impact on
popular culture.
I'm hoping they will. The
book (The Liverpool Scene) sold
quite well, and I think this poetry
and song thing is going to grow,
because there are so many poets
who are recording at the moment.
Pete Brown's got a poetry band,
and Leonard Cohn has this LP,
which is beautiful. I think Dono-
van is a poet, and I think Mark
is in his own way. It's becoming
increasingly difficult to say who's
a poet and who's a song writer
which is good.
" There's an LP coming out
called " McGough and McGear."
It's got a thing which Paul Mc-
Cartney produced, with Roger
doing " Summer with Monika "
accompanied by Andy. This
traces a relationship and the
music does as well : it's very
effective and I'd like to see it
happen more often."
D O N O V A N
Donovan hasn't appeared in
England since his Saville Theatre
concert about a year ago. When
Donovanfirstappeared, I said,
many people thought he was Bob
Dylan carbon-copy; but surely no
one thought so these days.
" No. Well, he's such a nice
guy, which is good. I'm a bit
disillusioned with everybody at
the moment, even the Beatles.
Their new record is such a bring-
down. I can well live without ever
hearing it again. You can talk to
Donovan as an ordinary, friendly
person, he doesn't put on any airs
or anything. I was most impressed
when I met him. I thought some-
body who writes such nice things
and has such nice ideas couldn't
possibly be like that in person.
And he is really, just like his
songs."
/ mentioned Donovan's recent
radio interview, when he talked
about the concert.
" He's run into problems with
his management. You know,
they're going to insist he gets
paid some enormous amount, and
and they won't let him donate the
money to charity, which is a drag.
Because I'm sure he'd want to if
he could."
As I left, John Peel was not de-
lighted with having to do a show
tlie next day, and threatening sui-
cide if he ever again showed signs
of becoming ill.
PAT ROTHERAM

