2 0 M A R C H 1968 F E L I X 9
THE SUNDAY
MORNING SCENE
If one starts with the bold assumption that you don't spend
Sunday morning in bed (like any sane being) and the less bold as-
sumption that you are not engaged in worship at the local shrine,
what is there to do to break the monotony of Sunday morning?
If you refer to standard works on the " happenings " in London you
will find that the only activity which seems promising is the Sunday
morning market at " Petticoat Lane."
Well, one Sunday morning recently a further deterioration in the
standard of the "Sunday Times" Colour Supplement drove me to
venture out to see what this place really was. The tube to Liverpool
Street is the best way to get there and Petticoat Lane, a fictitious
name for the Market which is held in Middlesex Street, is only a few
hundred yards awav.
The area surrounding the mar-
ket is hardly inspiring but it is
the sort of area you expect to find
in East London. So what do you
see as you enter the street where
London's equivalent of the fa-
mous markets of the World is
held—a seething mass of
humanity thronging down the
middle of the road with endless
rows of stalls either side of the
road. This confirms the conclu-
sion that this is the main activity
in London at this time on Sun-
day. Another conclusion you soon
arrive at is that most people,
among whom is a large proportion
of Americans and European tour-
ists, come just to look. I sup-
pose the most popular attraction
is the china and crockery sales-
men with their non-stop, machine-
gun patter and their crowd draw-
ing act of throwing complete sets
of china into the air and catching
them again almost invariably
without mishap. I can count
myself among a privileged mi-
nority who actually saw several
pieces of " unbeatable quality and
worth ten times the price " china
shatter on the ground and a con-
tented glow pass round the on-
lookers.
China
Jugglers
Besides china what else is sold
in the market? Well a large pro-
portion of the market is devoted
to clothes. They seem to be quite
cheap and the quality is predict-
able. This is not the place to buy
everyday clothes but is just the
place to kit out with something
suitably " extrovert " for Morphy
Day or Carnivals. If you are par-
ticularly addicted to useless ob-
jects in subtle shades of bright
pink or green plastic purporting
to be " Empire made" this is
just the place to come. It is con-
ceivable that there are some bar-
gains to be had but these, I sus-
pect are few and this is basically
a place just to look. Like all
such places Petticoat Lane is full
of " characters "—like the one
faithfully sticking to his duty of
informing the world that it's
" End is nigh " and colouring the
belief with the occasional dis-
cordant hymn, the bloke who
tries to persuade you that you
really can't do without a " Uni-
versal vegetable sheer" (which
you can buy in Woolworth's for
Is. 6d. anyway!), and of course
I know everybody wants their
photo taken with a neurotic
monkey, well this is just another
facility of Petticoat Lane.
I think, if your willpower is
strong enough to get up on Sun-
day morning, then it is well worth
a visit but one tip, don't take any
money with you then you won't
be tempted to spend it and also
you can't tempt anyone to lift it,
a common hazard of gatherings in
London.
TONY L A K E .
SIGHT AND SOUND
— Touch Typing the T^syWay
H. G. Wells predicted it, Aldous Huxley described it, SIGHT
AND SOUND did if. Man has at last been turned into a machine
that will do what it is told to do (for part of the time anyway). How
is it that a small group of people are dominating the minds of thou-
sands of people up and down the country ?
The first stage is to trap the victim. Most people admit that the
best bait is food or to be more precise " bread." How do we cet
bread? By earning it. How do you do that? Well, SIGHT AND
SOUND will tell you that quite a good way is by touch-typing. They
seduce you into believing what a useful asset typing is and how much
it will increase your chances of getting any job. then once they have
got you the brainwashing begins.
Towards the end of last term,
seven members of FELIX, as-
sorted young ladies and a man
whom the supervisors soon began
to describe as a " hard case"
filed into a room containing little
more than a set of desks with
typewriters on them and the fabu-
lous SIGHT AND SOUND learn-
ing devices. These were a decrepit
gramophone—in a smooth cabi-
net—and a chart displaying the
typewriter keyboard in a kaleido-
scope of colours. We were told
to put our fingers on the eight
yellow keys of the typewriter in
front of us (these curious ma-
chines had plain keys so it was
impossible to cheat).
Nervous
Spasms
The introduction started with
a metallic voice coming from the
gramophone and lights flashing
on the board in front of us. The
voice said, "Q-now, A-now, Z-
now." Each time it said a letter
that letter was lit up on the board,
and each time it said "now" every-
one in the room had a nervous
spasm and in one violent convul-
sion pressed the appropriate key
with the nearest finger. For six
sessions each lasting an hour we
were subjected to this treatment
and by then we could type at
about 8 or 10 word* per minute
without looking at the lights.
The next stage was more sinis-
ter—no lights just headphones
connected to one of six or eight
The Audio-only room
programmes. Lesson one of this
stage was supposed to check that
we could type at 8 to 10 words
per minute, or to be more accur-
ate about 40 twitches a minute.
In Lesson two the magic voice
gave up saying " now " and was
replaced by a metronome. During
this stage our twitchibility was in-
creased to about 70 to 75 twitches
a minute. The more resistant
victims had to go through this
lesson three or four times before
the brain washing was complete.
Further lessons produced the ma-
gical rate of 100 twitches, or 20
words per minute, which is the
guaranteed speed after 12 lessons.
Concentration
Despite this rather Orwellian
description the typing course is
well worth the effort. The me-
thods may appear impersonal but
the girl supervisors do their best
to create a relaxed and more per-
sonal approach. It can only fail
if one approaches it feeling tense,
or if one's concentration wanders.
Many people find it difficult to
focus their attention on one object
for an hour, and when this object
is typing many people find it im-
possible.
For anyone interested in le i -
ing to type the sight and s; id
course can be thoroughly recom-
mended. The cost is 1\ gns to stu-
dents. Members of the FELIX
staff will be happy to answer any
further queries about it.
JOHN SOMME
ARAB S O C
MAKES FRIENDS
A week last Tuesday evening
the Arab Society had as its guest
speaker Mr. Colin Jackson, a
Labour MP and member of the
executive of the council for the
Advancement of Arab-British
Understanding.
He started by explaining the
origin and aims of CAABU,
which had been started mainly
by MPs, writers, professors and
students during the Arab-Israeli
war last June as a reaction to the
Israeli propaganda which was
almost all that was being dis-
seminated in Britain. C A A B U
now has about 1,000 members
and recently got 1,200 members
of the general public to a meet-
ing on the problem of Arab refu-
gees. The purpose of C A A B U is
P H O T S O C
EXHIBITS
To-day sees the last day of the
Photographic Society exhibition
in Mech. Eng. concourse with a
variety of photos on subjects
ranging from relics of ancient
civilisations to a power station
silhouetted in the setting sun.
The exhibits were judged by
Mr. J. L. Fagg, A.P.R.S., who
commented that the selection of
prints was varied and pleasing
but the standard of entries in the
Technical and Record section
was, he thought, rather low for a
college such as this. It is inter-
esting to note that two of the
three prizewinner!' in the Photo-
journalism section have appeared
as FELIX new j ;
olographs this
year.
to promote Arab-British friend-
ship by political as well as cul-
tural means. He mentioned that
British soldiers would be out of
the Arab world in four years and
said that a military presence did
not help understanding anyway.
He wanted to see more cultural
exchange between Arab countries
and Britain. " I'm fed up with
seeing the Bolshoi Ballet."
N o a n t i - s e m i t i s m
On the question of Israel he
said that it was an affront to the
Arab peoples to have a theocratic
state imposed in the middle of a
completely different part of the
world. He likened the situation
to Mexicans " going home " to
Texas and forcing Americans out
with the aid of China. He com-
pletely denied that there was any-
thing anti-semitic in the opposi-
tion to Israel, and said there were
R O I N E S
s c o r e s again
Stuart " Roines" Senior was
on Thursday elected unopposed
as Guilds Publicity Officer in
succession to John Collis who
resigned. Throughout the year
he has done much work for
Guilds publicity, including mas-
terminding the brilliant Guilds-
Mines Carnival poster campaign.
He has also been responsible for
the " Roines " and " Murf " car-
teon.' In FELIX CMS year and at
the regir.ninr of the session also
d-fcj IFiELiX posters.
Jews in the cabinets of some
Arab countries until recently.
The Israeli's actions in Jerusa-
lem, dynamiting buildings and
brutality to Arabs were intoler-
able. He likened the blue crosses
put up on shops held by Arabs
who refused to open them to the
yellow ones put on Jewish shops
by the Germans in the last war.
The only peaceful way he could
see for the settlement of the Is-
raeli problem, which he described
as optimistic was : recognition of
Israeli, ships of all nations en-
titled to pass through the Suez
Canal, withdrawal of Israel: to
her position in June 1967 (includ-
ing giving up Jerusalem) and the
settlement of refugees.
This plan was severely criti-
cised by many of the audience
during questions, by people who
wanted Israel destroyed, but Mr.
Jackson said that he thought in
time Israel would become an
Arab Jewish state since there was
a net immigration into Israel and
the Arab Jews had a higher
birthrate. Other questioners
wanted him to condemn the Arab
monarchies and sheikdoms, but
he did not want to factionalise
the CAABU.
I found some of Mr. Jackson's
argument somewhat naive but on
the whole the meeting provided
some points worth considering
against the usual background of
pro-Israel information dispensed
in this country.
DAVID COOPER.
Silwood
comes of age
This year is the 21st anniver-
sary of the College taking over
the Silwood Park Field station.
To mark the event a special ball
is being arranged on June 7 th.
E S P e r i m e m
Well's Soc's Ghost Group are now in the process of sorting and
analysing the returned forms of their first ESP experiment. The
participants had to try to reproduce drawings made by a transmitting
agent. All together five experiments have been planned, each involv-
ing 100 people.
About half of the first batch of forms have been returned and 90
per cent of people remembered to do their drawing every day n r
'
standard of drawing has been high (who says that scientists have no
artistic ability?) Apparently the best drawings came from the Botany
Department. A lot of the drawings had a nautical flavour. There
have been a lot of ships and lighthouses. Clocks have also featured
strongly, but this may have been due to the introduction of BST in
the middle of the experiment. Other favourites have been tables,
chairs, geometrical shapes and daffodils. (Spring is on. the way,
folks!)
At the moment the original drawings are being kept secret so
that the judges cannot tell when they were done or who thev were
done by. The drawings are being judged several times by different
judges for similarity of shape and similarity of subject. A statistical
analysis of results will be made by computer.
The name and location of the transmitting agent is being kept
strictly secret; in fact very few people know. The Group have been
very clever in not even telling their PRO man Jonathon Moont. A l l
they will say is that the transmitting agent is located somewhere in
London, aged between 30 and 40 and completely dissociated from I.C.
At 8 a.m. in the morning he makes a drawing from a book. The
page number of the book is obtained by playing dice. The drawing
is then pinned up in his room. More than ten drawings were made in
case there was precondition or post-condition.
More people are still required for the second experiment and
anyone interested should contact Jonathon Moont (Elec. Eng.). This
experiment will involve people from other universities as well as IC.
Universities in Australia and America have been contacted and it is
hoped that they will join in the later experiments, although the cost
and time involved might be too great.
ANNE WHEATLEY, Physics 3
lb MR1
There was a young man in the Robbery,
Who went from being flippant to snobbery.
He talked to Lord Bill
For good and for ill,
But not to the rest ©fi the mobbery.
A N O N

