12 MUSIC 23 January 1998
T H A B O M B I
•wEffl Milen is back with his RnB crew, with a
review of last years news and tastiest
cuts.
What up IC !! 1997 has come to an end,
lots of shit has happened and Tha Bomb has
pulled out all the stops to bring you a whole
page (yes, a whole page!) of the wicked goings
on as we review the year nine seven.
The big story in 1997 was the death of
Biggie (RIP) on 9th March, having just attend-
ed the Annual Soul Train Music Awards, the
big man was gunned down and died almost
immediately. The hip hop world had just suf-
fered a major loss with the death of Tupac
and with the loss of Biggie many commented
that the East-West war had gone too far.
Uncertainty still surrounds both murders, but
one thing is for sure - death increases sales
and Biggies' second LP, the double album Life
After Death went on to be hugely successful.
It was even given the full five mics by The
Source, whether the LP deserved the full five
is up to debate; my stand point is that it was
good, but five mics? - get real, there were
other albums more deserving. To cap it off
Puff released the tribute single /'// Be Missing
You, which went to number one over here and
in the States; making loads of dollars. The
Bad Boy onslaught continued with Puffy
bringin' out his own album (why? He can't
r
1 _
_
_
_
_
r
w - ' _
_
_
_
_
_
_
b
P
rap) called So Way Out. Meanwhile, the situ-
ation on the West Coast goes from bad to
worse, with Suge Knight in jail Death Row was
not as prominent as it once was. Snoop's sec-
ond album The Doggfather wasn't in the same
league as his first, the classic Doggystyle.
Most people put it now to the loss of Dr Dre,
who left to form Aftermath Records; so far
only two releases from Aftermath, the compi-
lation album Aftermath Presents... and the
high profile Firm project The Firm. Death Row
made a comeback late on in the year with the
release of the soundtrack album Gang
Related, most of the success was put down to
the number of Tupac tracks present. Tupac
remains a huge draw as the release of the
double album R U Still Down showed; the LP
was made up of old stuff from his days with
Interscope Records and wouldn't have been
released if he was still around.
Lots of stuff came out during the year as
the market was flooded with albums. The
most eagerly awaited was the Boyz II Men
album, their follow up to II was Evolution, had
the boys evolved into men? Well I don't really
know what happen but they have certainly
changed, this is not as good as either
Cooleyhighharmony or //, the main problem
being the collaboration with Puffy. They can
sing better than most, but they can't sing
every style. Mary ) Blige, the queen of hip hop
soul returned with her third album, all the
ingredients were there, big time producers,
great voice and yet this didn't seem to be
enough. Perhaps its just that My Life and
What's the 411 can never be topped. Still,
though Mary is the queen. My favourite of the
year was tha Missy album Supa Dupa Fly, this
girl can do it all, she's big all over. She writes,
producers, raps and sings! She has penned
and produced numerous hits for Ginuwine,
SWV, Aayihah and many more. Her album
blew up huge, the two stand outs being the
infectious Supa Dupa Fly and Sock It To Me.
She's gonna me around for a time, so watch
out. Speaking of SWV, they also brought out
an album Release Some Tension, this was one
of Puffy's disasters and certainly SWV
should've stuck with their former producer,
the album consisted of purely guest appear-
ances, they should be renamed SWLOF
(Sisters With Lots Of Friends). At the start of
the year Foxy released her III Na Na set and Lil
Kim dropped her Hardcore album, question:
are they successful cos' they good rappers or
because they remove nearly all their clothes?
Staying wit the ladies, two nu soul acts
appeared on the scene, one of dem blew up
huge while the other got lots of props, but not
the around commercial success of that other.
The two are Erykah Badu and Adrianna Evans,
the former blowing up while the latter had a
better all round album and yet the success
did not come. Erykah's album Baduizm was
phat and deserve the hype, but Adrianna
came correct with an even phatter album
(number one). The most surprising thing was
the jodeci wannabes Dru Hill, they can from
nowhere to release one of the most wanted
albums, the remix of In My Bed blew up big,
but can they sustain it - I think not.
Having actually read all of dis it seems like
there is nothing on the British crew, so lets
correct that right now. This side of the
Atlantic has got it going on too, in fact it was
the Americans who decided that London is
the coolest city on the whole damn planet.
The British crew are representin' as good as
all dem Americans, but for some reason all
here we don't seem to realise that our people
are as good as them. If the artist is American
we seem to immediately believe they're class
and if British then we don't consider them
good. Our boys and girls got all tha skill/, and
they bin showing it, we all got to buy the stuff,
British is best. The best example is
D'lnfluence, now on their third album they're
a class band, both Prince and Michael Jackson
have specially requested them to perform at
their concerts as support and yet their suc-
cess still remains limited. D'lnfluence are
hype, their album's called London, buy it you
won't be disappointed. Next up we have Lyden
David Hall, this man has just released his first
album Medicine For My Pain its described as
Nu Soul and is as good as D'Angelo. He says
he's been making this type of music for years,
but couldn't get signed till the scene took off
big, i.e. Maxwell and D'Angelo. 97 was also
the year of Shola Ama, this young lady really
blew up this year storming the charts and
reaching the great highs of number one on
more than one occasion. You're the One Love
reached number one and stayed there for an
age, Shola must beware though that she is
not turned into a pop icon. As well as the
emergence of exciting new acts we also had
the return of an old one - the Mack returned,
Mark Morrison. I really don't know what to
say about him, but sort it out. I just got to flip
the switch real quick and give big props to
Roni Size, I ain't into drum and bass, but for
someone to come from nowhere and win the
Mercury Music Prize deserves recognition.
There was lots of other shit happening
thru' the year that I didn't cover, that wasn't
cos I didn't rate the other stuff, but because I
didn't have the time or space. Anyway that's
all from me and the whole Felix RnB crew.
Peace.
Milen
Tha Bomb! - Tha Future
97 over and 98 coming along thick and
fast, there's a load of new people to look out
for in 1998. First up we got Jagged Edge, they
ain't as old as Blackstreet or as feeble as 112,
but these guys can sing for real and with the
right marketing could blow up huge. They've
already dropped the first single The Way That
You Talk, which has been doin° it on the dance
floors now we're just waiting for the long play.
Myron is a young man with all the skillz, what
can I say, two promos released and blowin' up
big on the downlow, whens the album drop-
pin' y'all. As well as all the new people we
also got some old heads dropin' again. The
most wanted and my tip for album of the year
before I even hear it is the Faith Evans joint. I
already caught the first single of it and if the
rest is any thing like dat then we got tha
Bomb on our hands. Badboy also gonna come
out with the new Total joint, the first album
was a hit on a big scale, this needs to follow
it up strong. And with loads more to drop in
the nine eight lets hope that its gonna be a
strong year for hip hop and RnB.
This page was constructed with the help
and assiantance of loads of people and
shoutouts go to those people : Jason & Alok
(Felix music Editors), Roni, Gloria, Nim,
James, Andrew, Arinze.

