ICU Welfare Committee Newsletter Spring Edition
H o u s e o f H o r r o r
C o m p e t i t i o n
Enter details of how things have gone kaputski for you since coming to College.
Share details of broken windows, dodgy landlords, fights with flat (so called) mates,
broken promises and collapsing ceilings. You could win fifty quid!
Jot down the details, however vague, along with your name, and place we can
contact you, and hand them in to the Union Office Reception Desk, addressed to
Welfare Committee, before Friday 6th February. The best entry wins £50. That'll
buy quite a lot of pints, or you could get something useful like a CO detector.
Some entries so far
"I knew things were going bad when my flat mate
threatened my parents with the police..."
"My landlord thinks that having a key to my flat is an
invite to let himself in as he chooses!"
"...so we called him Mickey, Mickey-Mouse..."
"The hard way to learn that hall doors lock behind you,
is to dash out in the buff to the bathroom and lock
yourself out, may I recommend a shower curtain to
cover your... embarrassment!"
"I started to be worried when a large man tried to
batter down the front door, looking for my landlord."
"There was a flood in the flat above, and the next day,
big chunks of plaster started falling from the ceiling."
"The landlady told us that the gas boiler had been
checked recently, then our Carbon Monoxide detec-
tor went off, and the emergency gas man that we
called out said that the flue was illegal!"
D i d y o u
k n o w ?
• That the red buttons on the walls in
the ladies' toilets (1st floor above the
Union Bar) are Rape Alarms. If you
find yourself in trouble, push one, and
help will quickly arrive.
• That Personal Attack Alarms are
available free from the Union Office
Reception Desk.
• That the post of Accommodation
Officer is currently vacant - elections
will take place at the next Council
meeting. If you're interested, and think
you could do the job, please come and
talk to Andy Heeps (ICU President),
currently acting Accommodation
Officer.
• That ICU run a free Womens'
Minibus Service on Bar Extension
nights (Wednesdays and Fridays -
Autumn and Spring terms, Friday
nights - Summer term) to take lone
female students home in safety.
• That the post of RSM Welfare Officer
is also vacant - if you're a Miner, and
think you could do the job.

