23 January 1998 COLUMNS
In any organisation, the relation-
ship between the Chairman or
Director and the man responsible
for the money is always a central
part of its running. Splits here have
the potential to be extremely d a m -
aging to the organisation, and it is
c o m m o n for leaders to be felled by
their financial colleagues. W h e n this
organisation is Her Majesty's
Government, the situation is even
more serious.
O n the face of it, the present
spat between Prime Minister Tony
Blair a n d Chancellor of the
Exchequer Gordon Brown doesn't
look too serious. Things were
stirred up by publication of G o r d o n
Brown's biography, written by Paul
Routledge. Although Brown's con-
tribution was apparently minimal,
his brother had extensive interviews
with the author, and it is considered
relatively accurate. The main sub-
ject of media attention was his
opinions of the 1994 Labour leader-
ship contest, which y o u may have
guessed Tony Blair w o n . At the time
Blair and Brown were the foremost
candidates, with Blair additionally
some way ahead. Brown agreed to
stand aside for his friend and col-
league to run, allowing him to win
the election with little trouble. At
the time this was said to be a rea-
sonable agreement between
friends, but has now been revised
to suggest that Gordon Brown was
deeply upset and resented his col-
league taking the prize by which
some accounts should have been
his. The biography also suggests
that even now Brown is not entirely
enamoured with Blair.
Spats between Prime Ministers
and Chancellors are as old as the
Exchequer itself. Perhaps some-
where in the world there will be a
' N u m b e r T w o ' in politics w h o
deeply loves and respects his supe-
rior, but none have c o m e to light as
misconception. Labour chose Blair
with little fuss, for the first time in
around thirty years choosing some-
one w h o appealed to the public
rather than to its o w n extremities.
Doubtless visions of the election of
Michael Foot as leader in the early
eighties, purely to placate their o w n
left wing, without a thought for
whether the public liked h i m ,
flashed through their mind. H e led
Hamish Common
W e s t m i n s t e r
E y e
yet. This s a m e resentment, if
allowed to build up, can precipitate
the downfall of the leader. Geoffrey
H o w e ' s public showing of resent-
ment of Thatcher caused her d o w n -
fall soon after. Macmillan disagreed
with and fired two chancellors over
inflation, with his authority fatally
undermined as a result. However
the difference between these cases
and this one was the Prime Minister
was to blame. This time it is the
Chancellor. H e had given the
impression that he thinks he should
have been Prime Minister. He thinks
the Labour Party wanted him as
Prime Minister. H e probably thinks
the public want h i m as Prime
Minister. He is labouring under a
t h e m to a disastrous General
Election in 1983, when Thatcher's
previously unpopular Government
extended its majority in Parliament.
Blair has been running the agenda:
Clause Four, no increase on income
taxes, the position on Europe, all
this has been of Blair's doing. The
public voted for Blair just as much
as they did for Labour last M a y . So
with this backdrop Brown's c o m -
plaints seem all the more ridiculous.
Blair was provoked into slapping
the Chancellor d o w n , even remov-
ing him as Chairman of the Cabinet
Welfare Reform Committee, with
himself in the chair and Prescott
(who let him be reminded is the
Deputy Prime Minister and the real
Number Two) as deputy.
Together with his recent
s p i n - d o c t o r i n g disaster
when badly-managed news
releases ensured a view of Brown
addressing the Stock Exchange in
front of a sea of red figures. Soon,
both m e n saw sense and lavished
praise o n each other to calm the cri-
sis.
The Times may have done its
part of the story, publicising and
then publishing a serialisation of the
biography, and then filling column
inches with reports of the backlash.
But however one may want to
blame the media, they were simply
bringing to public attention some-
thing which should be in the public
d o m a i n . Any bitterness that the
Chancellor has about his overlord is
worrying for the rest of us w h o have
to live under their rule. As one
Labour M P said "I'm astonished that
people at the very highest level can-
not be more disciplined. They are
letting this run out of control. W e
are only eight months in govern-
ment. They have got to get a grip."
There is no question of Brown going
in the short term - indeed he has
demonstrated competence in his
position. But he would be wise to
remember that Prime Ministers usu-
ally outlast Chancellors, and making
himself look silly in front of his party
and the public will further reduce his
own leadership chances or survival
in post.
THE IDIOT'S GUIDE TO GETTING A FIRST with COLIN DALE
• Over the next four weeks I will be presenting
I a practical, step-by-step guide to help you
I achieve academic success. If you are rea-
I sonably intelligent you should have no prob-
I lem putting my ideas into practice and get-
| ting a good degree. If you are unreasonable
| intelligent you won't need to bother reading
| it, as you are probably at Cambridge
I already.
• Cut out and keep the set, and for best
• results file them in the special binder which
• is available for just £ 2 . 5 0 from the Felix
• office. In tasteful black vinyl, it comes with
a complimentary "I an so gullible I will buy
anything" T-shirt.
Before I start dispensing my indespensi-
ble advice, I'd like to point out that I take no
responsibility whatsoever for exam failures /
'suicides / increases in the staff mortality
• rate. This is partly who takes this seriously
I is so stupid that they will fail their exams
I anyway; and partly because I don't give a
I toss. So, without further ado, here we go...
Part One: Motivation
If you get a first from Imperial College, you will
be m u c h sought-after. People from many
establishments will want to see y o u and will
probably be very keen to hang on to y o u . But
don't let this worry y o u , you may eventually be
released back into the community if they
decide that you're not too much of a threat.
The route to academic success is long and
hard, and requires a great deal of determina-
tion. Your intelligence and commitment will be
tested to the limits, and you will be assessed
against the highest, most rigorous academic
standards. O n the other hand, you might be
studying materials.
There will be many setbacks. For IC students,
the main obstacles to successful study are:
a) Unrequited love (does not apply to female
students)
b) Alcoholism, especially due to a)
c) Attempting to get a degree in physics.
These difficulties can all be conquered. All y o u
need is motivation, a reason to get out of bed
in the morning (and at this time of year, it has
to be good). If you are driven by intellectual
curiosity for your subject then you should have
no problem. Those that are not suffering from
mental illness, however, will need to train
themselves. Remember your new year's resolu-
tion (not the one about mixing your drinks
before lunchtime; the other one about working
hard and going to all your lectures)? Before get-
ting up in the morning, try repeating to yourself
" M y subject is really interesting", until you feel
a spontaneous desire to leap out of bed and
rush to your department. If it hasn't worked by
dinner time, it's time to see the senior tutor.
Alternatively, try reminding yourself of the
rewards that your hard work will bring: "In five
year's time I will be earning £ 100,000 a year /
driving a flash car / the world's leading expert in
non-linear effects in birefingent crystals at liq-
uid helium temperatures." If this still doesn't
work, there's always the fear of failure to drive
you o n . This can be very effective, and has kept
me going for two and a half years.
Perhaps, at the end of the day, the best thing is
to stop reading this nonsense and just buckle
d o w n and work.
Colin Dale

