Feature
Cultural Yobbism? Not me. Opera only
became popular with the rise
of that most 1980s phemon-
enon, Essex men and
yuppies. As Loadsamoney
used to say. "Ah yeaah, we
luve the op-er-ra. We puut on
arr penquin suits 'nd go to
duff 'p the Pavarotti fans.
Hulio Eyeglazi 'e's the best,"
For a clean living, indie
loving cartoon icon like me,
the closest I've got to opera
was Queen's 'a night at the...'.
Well until last week that is.
The first thing you
notice about these opera people is that they
are a different class from us indie-kids. The
majority of the operatic moshers were
dressed up to their eights in business suits,
whilst those who I can only assume were the
groupie crowd were replendent in djs or ball
gowns. There was the odd mohican and piece
of torn denim but I guess the orchestra get to
wear what they like.
Second shock of the evening. We're in
an all seater venue and there are big signs up
which say 'the English National Opera advise
patrons that stage diving is only permitted
during the interval'. Oh, kill-joys how are we
supposed to enjoy ourselves, by listening to
the music or something? I start to air my
feelings to the old soak next to me but he
hushes me down in plumy tones.
What's happening now? Everyone has
started to clap but as yet there is no-one on
the stage. Maybe some famous rock god of
old had just appeared in one of the boxes?
Nope, apparently it was just that the
conductor had arrived. Very strange.
Clapping a man who doesn't even play an
instrument. Next thing you know we'll be
cheering the roadies as they set up the gear;
F E L I X
Momentary panic grips me as I reach the
door. Are flares in or out? Will they let me in
without a goatee? But all is well and seconds
later I'm groping my way down the drab black
corridors of the Astoria towards the
cloakroom. Here's the first big shock. A
pound? Outrageous. You'd think they'd be
pleased to have my trendily unravelling
Barbour motorcycle jacket gracing their
racks.
The auditorium is painted black too. As
we enter, an amplified flute breathes and sails
magically over the PA; a good start. There are
seats up in the circle but it's standing only
down here in the stalls. The tangle of lighting
gantries and drum kits on the stage is almost
hidden by an opaque screen. Retro 70s slides
are projected onto it, back to front and
sometimes upside down as well.
The screen^ rises to reveal the opening
three-piece, Thurman, who pogo and posture
in the approved manner. But even their
frantic, masturbatory slitherings up and
down the fretboard make no difference
Mensch und mosh
A mix-up at the reviews desk sends tintin to
The Magic Flute while patrick wood
breaks sweat to the sound ofnext
big thing Echobelly
"well done 'pete the dog', you set
up those guitar stands with the poise
ofaPele".
I'm still feeling uncomfortably
sitting in my plush seat as the curtain raises
and out strides a topless figure with an
obviously stuffed snake around his neck.
With charming naiveity he pretends that it is
alive by wriggling its body. Of course while
he does this he's singing about being
attacked by a large snake, which is kind of
appropriate in the circumstances. And then
the whole event becomes a sort of cod-opera.
Out come three overblown ugly sister types,
decked out in mountainous blues dresses and
beehives. Just a comic interlude? No, from
then on there's enough winking, stage
asiding, ribaldry and cliched plotlines for
this to be considered akin to 'Carry on
Mozart'. It's true, opera is nothing more
than a higher, if expensive, form of
pantomime.
Onwards went the convoluted plot,
which eventually ended up involving free-
masons, evil rapists, true love and all that
jazz. Did I enjoy it? Oh yes.
The Magic Flute runs at the ENO, 0891 440
693, standby student tickets are £15
to the dense grey splurge roaring out of the
speakers and up into my chest. I lift one foot
and the sole tingles.
They're herefor the
perfect swoop of Sonya
Madan's nose
Drugstore are quieter and have more to
say, but they're not on for as long. Singer
Isabel woos the rebel teen faction, dragging
on her fag and swigging from a wine bottle.
German pop from the PA, gusts of dry
ice... and a half-hour wait for the main
attraction. Echobelly's first chords transform
the crowd. For most of the first song I'm just
trying to stay on my feet in the middle of the
bouncing, swaying throng. It's impossible not
to be carried away by the spirit of the
congregation, tossed like a fleck of dust,
splashed with a stained-glass ecstasy of light.
Flickering backlights freeze the waving
arms, and a pair of feet flails
into sight as the crowd-
surfing starts. Next to me,
someone strikes a match. A
red spotlight glances onto
one corner of the stage and
through a veil of cigarette
smoke I see the band's black
guitarist glow, pulsing and
fading like a hot coal.
If you haven't heard the
songs before, this isn't a very
good place to start. But no-
one's here for the music any
more. They're here for the
perfect swoop of Sonya Madan's nose, her copper skin
and copper-dyed hair. The dip and catch of her
knowing voice is too often overlaid by a metallic
sheet of noise. Last night all I wanted was to
have my adolescence back. Today I'd settle for
my hearing.

