Xtra Curricular
who: Euro Youth
What: European Conference
Keys: Podium, Pan-European
The 2nd Europe 2020 Pan-European
Conference
The Society for European Youth received an
official invitation by the Fontainebleu Youth
Foundation, organisers of the very successful
Europe 2020 Paneuropean Conference to
form a delegation of 10 people and to repre-
sent Imperial College to the second "Europe
2020" conference, which will take place in the
University of Oxford from March 18th to
March 24th 1995. The conference has been
described as "a podium for the Youth, a
chance to take part in the shaping of policies
which will affect our lives". It will include
satellite events for the participants, such as a
"Careers Fair" event with Europe-wide com-
panies on the conference site (Jesus, Oriel
and Wadham College) and also the award of
valuable scholarships to those delegates
whose performance will be outstanding dur-
ing the week.
Up until now some of the leading
Universities across Europe, like Munich and
Heidelberg, Amsterdam (UvA), Barcelona
(UPC), Dublin (Trinity College) etc. as well
as Oxford and Cambridge have confirmed
participation at the conference; the organis-
ers await the confirmation of participation
from Bocconi Univ. Milano and SciencesPo
Paris.
If one wishes to attend the conference, he
or she should meet the conditions for partici-
pation. The application consists of:
1) A letter and a personal c.v.
2) A supporting note from one's academic
tutor or Dean of Faculty.
3) An essay of no more 1000 words , type-
written and in English.
Applicants should discuss one of the follow-
ing in their essays:
1) Representation of the Citizen; what part
should democratic control play in
European Institutions? A blueprint for the
European Parliament.
2) Social Rights across Europe; how far can
and should employment conditions be
harmonised across the E.U.?
3) Europe and the U.S; Superpower rivalry or
global partnership? How closely should
Europe and the U.S. cooperate on global
issues and how can this be managed?
The essays will be judged by an academic
panel based in Oxford , who will recommend
a list of candidates to be invited to the confer-
ence. If you are interested to know more
about the structure of the conference and to
apply, come to the meetings of the society for
European Youth for more information. Don't
worry about the subjects themselves. We will
work together on this and make sure that
f F E L I X OinOU9i|
each and every one produces a good essay and
application.
The society meets every Thursday at 1:00 in
ChemEng LT1.
who Christian
What: Topless Speaker?
Keys: Money, Scientism, Jesus
I usually go along to Rm 308 Huxley at
6.00pm on a Thursday. Unfortunately I was
unable to make it on the 20th. I asked a
friend what I missed. "Well, the speaker took
his clothes off and gave away £50." After a
more detailed enquiry I discovered he had
stripped to the waist.
Being somewhat disbelieving I further
investigated the situation. I checked with sev-
eral other eye-witnesses, and was left with the
option of believing them or finding some rea-
son for not doing so. For example was there
any reason for them not to tell the truth? But
why did the speaker take his clothes off?
What was the catch with the fifty quid?
Apparently none.
I later discovered the analogy for which
the situation served. The speaker was giving a
talk about an extraordinary event with conse-
quences of vast importance. This other event
has far more evidence than Thursday night
could afford. There were eye-witnesses over a
period of forty days and at one time was wit-
nessed by more than five hundred people at
the same time. However it occurred nearly
2000 years ago. But the evidence is still over-
whelming as it is so well documented.
"Both the authenticity and the general
integrity of the books Of the new testament
may be regarded as finally established" (quote
from Sir. Frederic Kenyon, a leading scholar
in this area.)
Sir William Ramsay is regarded as one of
the greatest archaeologists ever to have lived.
He observed the accuracy of the historical
details of the writings of Luke and concluded
"Luke is a historian of the first rank... This
author should be placed along with the great-
est of historians."
Nelson Glueck, a renowned archaeolo-
gist, made the remarkable statement "It may
be stated categorically that no archaeological
discovery has ever controverted a biblical ref-
erence."
But what is this event that happened?
That a man rose from the dead. And not any
man, but Jesus. But who is Jesus? A prophet?
A great moral teacher? God? C.S.Lewis put it
like this:
"A man who was merely a man and said
the sort of things Jesus said would not be a
great moral teacher. He would either be a
lunatic - on a level with a man who says he is
a poached egg - or else he would be the Devil
of Hell. You must make your choice. Either
this man was, and is, the Son of God, or else a
madman or something worse... but let us not
come up with any patronising nonsense about
his being a great human teacher. He has not
left that open to us. He did not intend to."
But doesn't science and scripture con-
flict? The most apparent conflict stems from
making the Bible say things it really does not
say and from "scientism" a philosophic inter-
pretation of facts. These interpretations are
distinct from the facts themselves. There is
no such thing as total objectivity in science or
in anything else due to the presuppositions
people always make. There is no fundamental
conflict between science and scripture. In fact
science backs up scripture, but more often
science gives us the know-how, but can not
give us the know-why. The Bible does not
purport to tell us the how of many things, but
it clearly gives us the why's.
So why did the speaker give fifty quid
away at Christian Union on Thursday? To
illustrate a point. No one was willing to
believe that it was true, due to being so
remarkable. But God has offered us some-
thing far greater and of more value, with no
catch. It was an expensive point to make, but
then God's offer also cost him dearly. All we
have to do is accept it. It is the offer of a new
beginning, living life to the full the way God
planned it. On Thursday, November 10th,
come and hear a talk on "Life, the universe
and everything" given by Gareth Williams, in
room 308, Huxley, at 6pm to find out more
about the answer to these why's. Come armed
with questions!
who Finance
What: Asset Management Grp.
Keys: Portfolio, Magazine
There is no doubt that a degree from Imperial
College will greatly improve your chances in
obtaining employment in industry. There
are, however, a number of students at
Imperial College taking scientific and engi-
neering degrees with a view to working not in
industry, but to entering the financial sector.
It is for these students that the Asset
Management Group will be of most interest.
The finance society is already well estab-
lished at Imperial College and bridges the gap
between the financial sector and students. It
is an invaluable point of contact between real
firms interested in Imperial College graduates
and the students. It offers a host of useful
events as well as a comprehensive magazine.
It is proposed that the Asset
Management Group be a subsidiary of the
Finance Society, targeting its members and
using its links with the financial markets.
The aim of the asset management group
is to increase awareness and knowledge of the
investment markets and hence no previous
knowledge is needed. All that is required is a
genuine interest in the field.

