Xtra Curricular
(continuedfrom previous page)
The objectives of the Asset Management
Group are to gain and share knowledge, to
demonstrate skills, interest and achievements
to potential recruiter's, to encourage team
work and communication between members
of the group and to organise specialised
events.
There will be five competing portfolios,
each portfolio would be handled by a group
comprising a port folio manager and three or
four analysts. They will be responsible fol-
lowing the markets and deciding how to
invest the money. They will also produce a
regular, concise but understandable report
describing the current state of the markets
and their effects on the portfolio.
Thus, members of the Group will not
only have the first step on the path to under-
standing some of the investment tools and
market factors affecting them, but by reading
all the other reports will be able to gain an
insight into the financial markets as a whole.
This whole project is still in its early stages
and so we would be eager to hear any sugges-
tions from anyone who is interested.
For more information feel free to contact
Michael Majdalany (FounderICo-chairman) via
the Computing III pigeon holes, or on email at
mm2@doc, or Arif Vohra (Co-Chairman), Maths
III pigeon holes or va2@doc via email.
who: Rag
What: Rag Events, Rag Week
Keys: Incentives, Dirty Disco
Trick or Treat
Last weekend saw another event in the Rag
calendar - Trick or Treating in Covent
Garden. On Saturday morning an unusual
sight greeted the tourists, as a group of rag-
gies, many in fancy dress, headed out for a
day collecting for SENSE. During the day we
raised the staggering sum of £594 with the
top collector winning a bottle of the spirit of
his choice.
Rag Week
Don't forget it is only 7 days until Rag Week.
This is a whole ten days packed out with
some great events including; a Comedy
Night, a Rag Raid, The Dirty Disco, where
the less you wear the less you pay too get in, a
Slave Auction, Britain's Largest Independent
Beer Festival, a Bungee Jump, Mixed Sex
Rugby, the Sponsored Nude Kamikaze
Parachute Jump and the Great Rag Bash.
Fireworks
Tomorrow night we will be collecting at
Battersea Park, the venue for one of the best
Firework displays in London. This is a
chance to collect a huge amount of money
while having a good time - as well as the fire-
works display there will also be a funfair and
stalls selling all sorts of goodies. Anyone
wanting to do this collection should meet at
the Rag Office tonight at 5.30pm.
Incentives
Remember, all the money you collect goes
towards our incentive scheme, which this
year is as follows: £50 - IC Rag Mug; £150
'150 Club' T-Shirt; £500 - Rag Sweatshirt;
£1000 - Rugby Shirt; £1500 - Engraved
Pewter Tankard. The first incentives will
arrive at next week's meeting, so get collect-
ing!
If you're interested in any of the above, please
come to today's Rag Meeting, at 1.10pm in the
Ents Lounge, or come up to the Rag Office any-
time.
who: Exploration
What: Tales of the Unexpected
Keys: Conservation, Caves
Exploration Society was founded to promote
interest in exploration of all kinds: from
adventure to science and from mountains to
underwater. The society organises a series of
lectures, this term there are four lectures
planned; Ornithological (bird) expeditions
(10/11), Underwater Ecology in St. Lucia
(23/11), Canoeing in the Amazon (1/12) and
Canoeing in the Cameroon (15/12). Next term
we will have talks on Caving, Mountaineering
and adventure cycling. All lectures start at
6.30pm and are held in the Clore Lecture
Theatre, Huxley Building.
Membership of the society is £3 which
entitles you to free entry to your first lecture
and 50p thereafter. We hold weekly meetings
in southside upper lounge Monday lpm.
Contact Piers Rathbone Geology UG3 for
details. Our first lecture is 'Going on a
Conservation Expedition' with Michael
Poulson in the Clore Lecture Theatre,
Thursday 10th November at 6.30pm. Michael
Poulson is currently Expeditions officer of
Birdlife International, he has extensive expe-
rience of ornithological expeditions in the
Philippines, Ecuador, North Atlantic, French
Polynesia, North and South East Asia and the
Middle East.
The lecture will cover the following top-
ics; Birds and animals as indicators of biodi-
versity, priority areas for conservation, what
is it like to be on an expedition, the roles of
NGO's and results of expeditions for conser-
vation.
who: Conservative
What: Introduction to Con Soc.
Keys: Archer, Heath, Hunt
Welcome to IC's branch of the World's oldest
and most successful political party. The basic
of our philosophy is simple and enduring -
only we are prepared to take a long, hard and
unsentimental look at the abilities and role of
government. We reject the obscure abstract
theories of socialists that show no under-
standing of human nature and that seem to
regard the outside world as an experimental
laboratory for their ideas. Only we believe in
a community of individuals able to keep their
hard-earned money and choose how to spend
it.
Our membership fee is just £3.00 and
this will grant you free access to all of our
speaker-meetings at Imperial College. Non-
members may attend if they pay 50p for each
event. This term we will be visited by our
Vice-President Mr Matthew Carrington MP
and the Euro-sceptic Sir Teddy Taylor MP.
Next term we have Mr Iain Duncan-Smith
MP of Lord Tebbit's former constituency,
the original thinker Mrs Theresa
GormanMP, the Cabinet Minister Rt Hon
David Hunt MBE MP and the brilliant ora-
tor Lord Archer. Also in the pipeline are Rt
Hon Sr Edward Heath K G MBE MP and Rt
Hon Michael Portillo MP both of whom need
no introduction.
We also have a few visits planned to the
Commons including a tour to see various
Cabinet Ministers and drinks parties in
Smith Square. Other social events include a
Christmas Dinner Party and an Annual
Dinner with a Cabinet Manager. Our meet-
ings are held on Thursdays in the Southside
Upper Lounge at 1.00pm. We welcome new
committee members especially next term.
Our newsletter "The Right Stuff is open to
contributors. See our posters or our main
sherfield notice board for more details.
who: Film Soc
What: Films this week
Keys: Father, Hero, Hillbillies
My Father the Hero
This week ICU Cinema and Filmsoc offer
you the chance to savour the truly interna-
tional side of the pictures. First up this week
at 8pm on Wednesday the 9th, is My Father
The Hero. This film first appeared as a 'little
belter' of a French film called 'Mon pere c'est
un hero'. Gerard Depardieu reprises his role
of a father who ends up pretending that he
and his daughter are in actual fact lovers.
Here at Filmsoc we have heard of 'keeping it
in the family' but with Gerard, it is possible
to take things slightly too far.
The Beverly Hillbillies
At 8pm on Thursday the 10th we give you the
chance to see how the other half live by
examining the lives of the filthy rich
Americans living in Beverly Hills. We can all
associate with wanting to be rich but when
Erika Eleniak and family from the 'sticks'
realise the ambition the antics start to
become hilarious.
010U94 F E L I X WM

