THE m
e
n
u
Standby
creative urges and limbs
We've had a lot of recreated
goulies recently. Bram Stoker's
Dracula was crucified into a post-
modern love-blood story by the
hamming talents of Francis Ford
Coppola, Jack Nicholson lost the
thread of werewolves in the truly
horrible Wolf and now we have
M a r y S h e l l y ' s F r a n k e n s t e i n ,
courtesy of Kenneth Branagh.
As with Coppola's Dracula the
invocation of the original author's
name in the film's title is always
cause for concern. To the general
public it suggests that the book has
been accurately translated to film
and whilst Mary Shelly's
Frankenstein is broadly true to the
original, Branagh can not resist the
temptation to throw in a totally
superfluous end scene which comes
close to wrecking the whole film
and certainly does inflict a great
injury to the central ideal of the
original. Branagh might say that he
wanted to use Victor Frankenstein's
love to Elizabeth as a balancing
force to passion for his work but in
the novel that patently isn't the
case.
The film starts and ends on the
ice-floes of the North Pole with the
discovery of the raving Dr
Frankenstein. Before dying he
recounts his terrible story
accompanied by the chilling howls
of the creature he has created. You
know the bare bones of the rest.
The construction and animation of
a creature, sown together using the
raw materials of death and the
newly discovered magick of
electricity. "It lives" is the glorious
cry which marks the fulfilment of
Frankenstein's alchemistical search.
And amidst the boiling flasks and
copper tubing Branagh's portrayal
of Victor Frankenstein carries us on
in the breathless imperative of
results without responsibility.
For the creature, as played by
Robert De Ni'ro, the fact that "it
lives" is the two pronged problem.
When someone says 'Did you think
it would thank for giving it this
life?', Frankenstein can only gape.
In the pivotal scene the creature
questions Frankenstein in the
wastes of an ice cave. When he
asks "what am I?", you know it's
something w e ' v e all failed to
answer. As for the depth of, "do I
have a soul?", like Frankenstein
most of us wouldn't even attempt
the question. For all its scars, gore
and raging murder it's the creature
which is offeYed to us as a
conscience.
Indeed if there is a villain, it's
Victor Frankenstein himself. He's
not so much driven by his
unhallowed goal as defined by it.
He throws all away, including his
love for Elizabeth, to recreate life.
The point, however, is made too
forcefully, particularly in the end
scene of total madness which twists
the idea of the companion
promised to the creature, into
unnatural life in more ways than
one. For all of Branagh's talk of
love, his Frankenstein becomes
insane, to the point of inhumanity,
and there's little there of love.
Against the power of Dr
Frankenstein, Helena Bonham-
Carter's Elizabeth can only be
submissive. Ignorance of what her
As we start the London Film Festival cha-cha, tintin checks out
how back to basics Mary Shelley's Frankenstein really is
whilst Magpie watches Loaded.
This week's star turn is performed by Andrew Thomson of
Computing 1. Take them away and give them a good spin.
It's album time. The Hamster washes his fur with special
shampoo, tintin sniffs around the smashing pumpkins'
bside/outtakes and he/en-/ou/se goes horticulturally dodgy.
A slow boat to Tripoli? Well Fiona goes down to the africa
centre and the, eerrrr, charms of Funkin' Pussy. We have
warned you.
Patrick wanders down to Sherfield and catches the dying
embers of the RCA exhibition, paper based, in the ante-room
husband-to-be has created, she Loaded is a British and New
finishes caught between the arms Zealand film which follows seven
of a madman who has promised youngsters'as they spend a weekend
her his love and the hands of a making a horror film in a country
creature who just wants her heart, house.
As a heroine she's just a cipher, a As with most new ventures, the
fact which not even Bonham- weekend starts with enthusiasm but
Carter's mischievous use of raised slowly personal matters come to the
eyebrows can change. As an icon of surface. Then the horror film's script,
consequence Branagh's inadvertentently becomes a grape-
interpretation overplays her vine for some of the characters'
significance and that's the main intimate details, and so the weekend
reason this film teeters backwards of intended filming comes close to
from the edge of greatness. That being a battle ground,
said, it remains one of the year's At the end of the day's filming
compulsive releases. Lance, Danny Cunningham, offers
The London Film Festival the group acid to brighten up the
opens this year on 3rd November atmosphere. As they start going
with the premier of Mary Shelley's down Lance, Neil (Oliver Milburn)
Frankenstein but it doesn't stop and Lionel (Matthew Eggleton) go off
there. Over the 17 days of the to buy cigarettes and food. On their
festival, some 180 films will be way back tragedy occurs when Neil
shown, one of which is reviewed intentionally drives straight into
next. Lionel. Lance and Neil take Lionel's
body back to the house where he is
presumed dead and in the panic the
whole group decide to bury him in
the forest.
The next day begins with the
question of what to do with Lionel.
The majority agree that Neil should
report the incident to the police but
as Neil sorts out his story the rest
decide to return Lionel's body to the
scene of the accident. However they
are unable to find the body. At this
point the real film's events resembles
the plot of the horror film they were
making, and so the film ends with a
continuous shot of something
travelling across the forest.
The film's plot is clear cut and so
few backdrops that nothing clutters
the plot. Anna Campion, (sister of
Piano fame Jane), has successfully
captured the hazy atmosphere of the
countryside and the way all the
characters' deeply hidden emotions
and personalities slowly come
through to the surface. Q
F E L I X

