Clued Up
10y
Nothing less than a great deal more
We are the world's largest business and technology consultancy. To build
on our success we must continue to set the standards that others must
follow - in the quality of our thinking, the quality of our service and the
quality of our people. That is why, when we recruit graduates, we recruit
only those who can deliver a great deal more than most in terms of
performance and potential.
In return, individuals who match our high standards can expect nothing
less than the very best: exceptional training; outstanding rewards and
benefits; exciting prospects for career development to Partner level within
a demanding and meritocratic organisation.
If you are in your final year at university and are interested in finding out
more about Andersen Consulting, please come to our informal presentation
at 6.00pm on Monday, 7 November 1994 at the Imperial College Conference
Centre in the Ante Room.
For more information please contact the Careers Service or call our
Recruiting Helpline free on 0500 100 189.
A N D E R S E N
CONSULTING
Muzak
Martyn investigates the failure of British music.
The fundamental problem with 'modern' British indie bands is
that, with a few exceptions on the outer reaches of exploration
it's all been done before. Those exceptions (eg, God, Godflesh
and My Bloody Valentine to name some examples) are mostly
brushed aside by the music press for being too far up their own
backsides to matter. This only leads to our greatest innovators
being ignored for not being a part of whatever bandwagon out
beloved weeklies have decided to ram down our throats.
However the so-called grunge explosion has burst out of a
healthy U.S. scene and blown a gaping hole in the mainstream
world-wide thus allowing in alternative bands. This has caused
more innovative music to reach the numbed minds of the chart
followers - the prime examples being Nirvana and Pearl Jam,
and this will ultimately bring forth a healthier breeding scene
for more overground experimentation. Could such a thing ever
arise in Britain? It is doubtful as too many bands are concerned
with recreating the past instead of looking to the future. Not to
mention the British music press' preoccupation with the past
and unhealthy disregard for what could be achieved...
Nevertheless the Beatles and Rolling Stones, who
attained a nigh on untouchable world-wide status that will
probably never again be accomplished, were a good enough
starting point for innovation that never occurred, but they lead
to a decline to present standards where copyists rule the
headline. The punk movement took music by the ear and
proceed to make one hell of a racket. It had a wonderful effect
in Britain, but made little impact across the pond, although it
undoubtably inspired the U.S underground throughout the
1980's and resulted in the Hardcore as well as the New, and to a
lesser extent, the No Wave scenes.
Anyhow back to the present day, the majority of current
U.S. guitar bands were influenced by such '80's forerunners as
Sonic Youth, Husker Dii, REM as well as our very own Fall,
and bands such as Nirvana and Pavement pushed from what
those bands were doing to develop to the present day where
such boundaries are still being explored. Moreover back on
British soil our crop of 'top talent' seem to have forgotten this,
so we have the beginnings of a stunted scene where the
progressive bands are left by the wayside and those lucky
enough to be pushed (usually by 'indie' labels run by a major
label eg Hi-Rise in reality Virgin to which both S*M*A*S*H
and These Animal Men are signed notice who's been getting
the interviews recently) are forerunners of a scene created by
the music press for which the bands themselves should take
little blame. This continual gaze into the past does nothing to
encourage a healthy and vibrant U.K music scene.
last week's wordlink answers
J A B S E S s i o N
u A E O M M
M A N 1 A C s P E C 1 A
P A R O p E R R
E N A p R A Y E R
R E A L L Y 1 1 j j
S A F 1 N A L E A
J~ Z- 1 O L A G o|
A | L 1 E N S D U P E_
L H o E E
T E T R|l S S U|S P E | C | T |
010091 F E L I X MM

