ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Effect @ The National Theatre – Could love ever be just the side effect of a
‘happy pill’? In The Effect, two volunteers taking part in a drug trial for a new “su-
per-Prozac pill’ will find out. Stars Billie Piper too – for those who find her to be
cool or something (she has had good reviews). Now – 23 February 2013.
Light from the Middle East: New Photography @ Victoria & Albert – A reflection
of the political, social and religious life of the MIddle East over the past 20 years.
Never before have contemporary Middle Eastern photographers been exhibited
in such depth. Admission is free. Now – 7 April 2013.
Richard III @ Apollo Shaftesbury – The famed Mark Rylance plays the villainous
Richard alongside an all-male cast in a traditional rendition of Shakespeare’s play.
Now – 10 February 2013.
Modern Panic III @ Apiary Studio – Bored of dullness at Imperial? Want to go and
see something surreal and controversial? Look no further: here is something really
weird, and not in an Imperial way. Plan ahead. 23rd November – 2nd December.
Death: A self-portrait @ Wellcome Collection – The morbidly preoccupied Ameri-
can eccentric Richard Harris amassed a huge collection of death related artefacts.
Now they are coming to London. 15th November – 28th February 2013.
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your draw-
ings to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle is by Umar Hossain, who would
rather draw chameleons than do fluid mechanics.
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
10
Every year, societies like DramSoc
and MTSoc find new ways to im-
press me. You would not think that
in a university filled with scientists,
engineers and medics, the students
would be that interested in theatre.
However, these clubs are more than
interested, they are good at it too,
finding new ways to entertain their
audiences with their talent and pas-
sion.
ICSM Drama’s latest play, All The
Meanings of Spring, running next
week, is set to be another such ex-
ample. It is an all-new play, directed
by final year medic, Richard New-
man. However, he is not only the di-
rector, he is also the wrote the play.
To find out more about all the mean-
ings of spring in November, I caught
up with the playwright.
Rhys Davies: Hello Richard. Thank
you for talking with me. Perhaps
you could start by explaining what
the play is about?
Richard Newman: This play is about
coming to university and being in a
new environment where nobody
knows you and trying decide who
you should be and why. It tries to
capture that initial feeling of escape
and freedom that we have as fresh-
ers. It is also about putting thoughts
into action, as we often don’t do, and
seeing where those actions take us
and why we may have social and per-
sonal barriers preventing us from
performing those actions in reality.
So those are the themes but spe-
cifically it is the intertwined story
of three freshers discovering their
feelings and how these affect their
relationships and lives.
RD: That’s quite ambitious. Where
did the idea for the play come
from?
RN: The whole thing started in three
places. I’ve wanted to direct a play
for ICSM Drama before but was un-
fortunately (fortunately, I now think)
rejected. I find theatre exciting and
always felt that I had something to
add to productions. But I needed
something to direct. Around a simi-
lar time, whilst travelling, I decided
that doing something creative was
vital. It was absolutely necessary for
me to have a place in the world. It’s
the kind of thing one thinks about
whilst travelling. So I had in my
head that I wanted to direct a play
and wanted to be creative – the two
ideas were not yet connected. I then
became aware that many of the ideas
I was having were being lost. I found
I had real epiphany moments that a
couple of months later I would for-
get. So I decided that I had to write
them down. And necessarily it took
the form of a play. It’s quite inter-
esting for me to realise this course
of events now, as I had never really
pieced it together before.
RD: It’s taken a long time to go
from that first idea to the stage
next week. How has the play
changed in that time?
RN: Initially the play started as a
group of eight students in a mysteri-
ous group with a cloaked man who
then go out into the world and fol-
low their ideas and then report back
at the end. This project didn’t seem
feasible and there were too many
main characters. So I changed it to
a group of three with a representa-
tion of their unconscious self that
followed them around instead. On
advice I wrote the final, climactic
scene first. This scene plus the full
characterisation of the main protag-
onists meant that the rest of the play
seemed to fall into place completely
organically.
There were certain things that I
wanted to show about the charac-
ters and others which needed to
happen in order for them to reach
the final scene in the state that they
were in. This led to the first draft
of the script. It was a ‘bare bones’
piece of work as others pointed
out to me many times. So I tried to
flesh it out. This was difficult as I
really didn’t want to add superflu-
ous scenes which had no meaning
or value. However, on consultation
with others I realised there were as-
pects of character and plot that, as
the writer, I had taken for granted
and needed to expand on. So I did
this and it evolved into the current
script. It’s still quite dense but I am
reluctant to water it down.
RD: Have you had any help in writ-
ing this? Who has inspired and in-
fluenced you?
RN: Yes I’ve had help from two main
sources. For a while I was going to
be co-directing with another final
year medic, Matt Rinaldi. However
due to other commitments (such
as an exhibition currently on in the
Blythe Gallery) he had to drop out.
Previous to that we had had nu-
merous scripting and ideas sessions,
editing and re-editing the various
drafts. It was a difficult process as
there was always a difference be-
tween us. We had different visions
and, as the original author, I some-
times struggled to incorporate both
whilst staying true to the meaning
and purpose of the play. Matt’s ideas
have been invaluable however, and I
am particularly pleased with the way
he transformed the final scene into
such a climactic event.
The other help was from my
brother who gave me many ideas
and suggestions that were often
along the same line as my own. I
also had advice and ideas from oth-
ers. In future I think I would always
work as a writer on my own and then
have other people read the piece of
work and make suggestions and give
ideas, leaving it totally up to me to
make the decisions. I think having a
pair of writers working equally to-
gether is very difficult.
RD: Finally, What do you think
is the importance of doing some-
thing creative like this? Writing
plays. Directing plays.
RN: We at Imperial are nearly all
scientists and rarely, if ever, use our
imagination in our studies. And, for
most of us, those studies take up a
lot of our time and focus (the rest of
it often being filled with sport and
drinking). I think this is a shame.
As Imperial students are generally
very intelligent, I’m sure that there
is a massive amount of great creative
energy which is currently not being
used. And University is the best time
to use it. After this it is extremely
unlikely that I will ever get the op-
portunity to write and direct my
own play again (particularly if this
one turns out to be rubbish). It is
surprisingly refreshing doing some-
thing creative, and is a welcome
break from hearing and thinking
about medicine constantly. Theatre
is, above all, very enjoyable and I’m
sure that there are many fascinating
and important stories to be told by
our students. I’ve tried to tell one of
them.
All The Meanings Of Spring at the
Union Concert Hall: 21st - 24th No-
vember at 7:30pm. Tickets £5 for
students and £7 for non-students.
Discount available for groups
of eight or more. Please contact
ah2610@ic.ac.uk for booking or any
other details.
The writer of Spring
Rhys Davies Writer
Medicplaywrightonthecreativeprocess

