ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Moving pictures at the Barbican
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER 11
Everything is, has been, and always
will be, moving. Memories of these
movements shape our worlds. They
metamorphose into nostalgia, some-
times even for times and places we
have never physically accessed. Ob-
sessions with an idealised past are
manifested through the way in which
we portray our world today; we use
commodities such as retro-style
clothing or the Instagram app.
The current exhibition at the Bar-
bican explores this notion during the
60s and 70s, an era of deﬁned social,
political, and photographic revolu-
tion. Objectivity through the lens
is captured by the subjectivity of 12
photographers from around the
globe, resulting in historic snapshots
served up for modern day interpreta-
tion.
The exhibition starts with photo-
graphs by David Goldblatt, which
contrast the “minutiae of Afrikaner
life” with the racist repression during
the apartheid. Photographs of day-
to-day occasions include mass burials
of mine workers. A particularly pow-
erful piece is his Johannesburg land-
scape of uniformly repeated lego-like
housing. This exterior is enough to
instigate imaginings over the limited
facilities, which surely ﬁlled the inte-
rior to a bare minimum– the reduc-
tion of rights to bare practicality.
By persuading the Race Classiﬁca-
tion Board that he was coloured, not
black, Ernest Cole was able to take
pictures of young homeless boys be-
ing slapped by white adults for beg-
ging, as well as blurred time-lapses
of street violence instead of being ar-
rested for practising photography.
One of his most frank pieces, cap-
turing the essence of the separation, is
a wide-shot over a train station ﬁlled,
on one half, with non-whites scram-
bling (sometimes over the tracks) to
get to non-signposted trains whilst
whites wait in comfortable personal
space on the other half of the station.
The struggles for the rights of indig-
enous South Africans is emphasised
with a matriarchal slant (although I
can’t help but giggle at a photograph
of what looks like Pocahontas with a
boombox) in the collection by Gra-
ciela Iturbide, the only female artist
featured in the exhibition.
Martin Luther King and Malcom
X sit next to Bruce Davidson’s more
harrowing pieces: for example the
scene of a racially motivated mur-
der. Despite its black and white col-
our, blood stains on the car seat stick
out boldly and unnervingly. It is one
of the many photos in the exhibition
that absorb you completely into a for-
eign situation.
The US is also represented through
the works of William Eggleston, the
father of style-over-substance thus
of style-becoming-substance hipster
portraits. Although not as impressive
compared to the culturally and politi-
cally driven pieces of his peers, it is
interesting to see where this style of
photography originated from.
Upstairs, the collection delves into
more speciﬁc events of the 60s and
70s.
Afghans watch the cruel ﬁght be-
tween two dogs and a chained bear
in a German photographer’s blotchy
time-lapse, suggestive of the Soviet
Union and US’s power struggle dur-
ing the Cold War, with Afghanistan
caught in the middle.
The next room holds bizarre nude,
political, and religious superimposi-
tions which had been prohibited by
the Soviet Union. Aesthetic beauty
emerges in certain pieces, such as
in one of a peacock tail decorating a
nude young woman, demonstrating
frustrations with the censorship of
the times.
It is easy to reﬂect over and enjoy
all the pieces in the exhibition – even
the seemingly abstract ones – as pho-
tography and history novices thanks
to the helpful blurbs accompanying
the collections and to the literature
produced by the Barbican.
The team has done well in engaging
visitors by making them empathise
with the photographs. Viewers are
referred to such present-day phe-
nomena as the globalisation of Japan
with Homei Tomatsu’s exploration
into Japanese post-war Americanisa-
tion.
The Far East is also considered
through Li Zhensheng’s journalis-
tic photographs of Chairman Mao’s
Cultural Revolution alongside play-
ful self-portraits that were taken in
secret and had to be buried.
Soldiers of the Vietnam War are
covered by Larry Burrows, whose
pieces documenting the conﬂcit are
considered to be some of the ﬁnest.
The exhibition ends on a happier
note, in the form of Malick Sadibé’s
partying and fun during the totali-
tarian French colonial rule in Mali.
These photographic subjects are en-
joying themselves, pleasing the view-
er and allowing for a way to relate to
such stories.
This notion demonstrates how all
the events and photographs of the
exhibition are rooted in human na-
ture – universal through time and
space. This clever play on time makes
you wonder how our current choices
and actions will shape the memories
of future generations, in the context
of history as well as of personal ex-
ploration.
Everything was Moving: Photography
from the 60s and 70s at the Barbican.
Tickets from £7.
Third round finalist of Harlem
free-style hat wearing competition
90% of viewers miss
floating flowerpot
© Boris Mikhailov
© Boris Mikhailov
© Boris Mikhailov
Giant crouton attacks skiers
Lily Le goes on an emotional and interesting journey

