MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
You Don’t Have To
Call It Music
Pt.6 punk
by Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Music has often been trimmed with philosophical considerations, or in the case of
rock&rollorfunk,sexualliberation.However,theseideologiesmoreoftenthannot
playsecondfiddletothemusicitself.Onecouldjustaseasilyacceptordismissthem,
refusingtoopineontheirbehalf.However,theyearsleadingtotheendoftheViet-
namWarandthecomingtopowerofMargaretThatcher’sConservativePartyinthe
UK,itwasclearthatwithholdingone’sopinionwasnolongeraviableoption.Setto
thebackdropofunemployment,unionstrikesandseveresocialinequalities,itmay
seemobviousinhindsightthatsomeformofpersonalrevolutionhadbeenbrooding
intheheartsofthedisenchantedanddisconnectedyouth.
Facedwiththeinsultinganaestheticpopofthetime,therampantcommercializa-
tionofpopularcultureandacriticalmassofthepopulaceconsignedtothegloomy
workingclass,theyouthhadhadenough.Socialtensionhadgrowntoburstingpoint
andthezitthatpoppedwaspunkrock.
BehindthesuccessofbandslikeTheRamonesandTheSexPistols,aferventun-
derground scene had formed on either side of the Atlantic. Inspired by a simplistic
songwriting approach, all of a sudden anyone could form a band. All it took was a
willtodosomethingforoneselfinsteadofblindlyacceptingthemorassofpopular
culture.TheDIYethicnotonlyinspiredkidstostarttheirownbandsbutalsofound
labels,publish‘zinesandestablishdistributionnetworksthroughwhichtopromote
theirmusic.
In 1977, the year the Pistols gave England Never Mind the Bollocks, a band called
Dischargerecordedtheirfirstdemoandanothergroupformedunderthenameof
Crass. Perhaps the two most influential groups of the underground, each unknow-
ingly founded a subgenre to their name, based on the impact of their music and
delivery.
D-beat, characterized by a percussive assault reminiscent of Motörhead, spread
through the globe as far as Scandinavia, Japan and South America. The rhythm is
a sort of huffing and puffing sledgehammer assault, catchy and explosive, proving
hardtoresist–aperfectvesselforjubilantuproar.Aslewofbandsgrewwhichbegun
prefixing their names with Dis-, creating a distinctive sound somewhere between
pogo-punk and head-on hardcore. Sweden in particular offers perhaps one of the
mostexplosivesceneswithbandslikeAnti-CimexandTotalitärreleasingbrutal,an-
tagonizingEPslikeVictimsofaBombraidandMultinationallaMördare,respectively.
InFinland,TerveetKädet’sÄäretönJouluisanastonishinglyfieryaccountofanoth-
erwisecoldandrestrainedland,thelightningspeedofthedrumsinducingasortof
wailingpsychosisinthevocalist,orvice-versa.
Ayearaftertheirformation,CrassreleasedTheFeedingofthe5000,foundingan-
archo-punkintheprocess.Songssuchas“DoTheyOweUsALiving?”werecharged
with sociopolitical interrogation, conscientious responsibility for matters such as
genderequalityoranimalrights,andpromotingenvironmentalawareness.Farmore
interestedinideologicalprogressthanmusicalmerit,therecordsservedasaplatform
for enlightenment. Their logo is an interesting amalgam of various icons of power,
entanglingaUnionJack,aSwastika,anOuroborosandaChristiancross.Theirvisual
approach was also prominent in their live shows, where banners read slogans like
“ThereIsNoAuthorityButYourself”,whichwerealsostencilledaroundtheLondon
Underground.
In North America, Bands like Black Flag built their reputation in part as a by-
product of their survival instinct, touring incessantly to put food on the table and
beer in the belly. Through their homegrown SST label, the band and others in their
entourage fostered a community of musicians, fans and facilitators among which
theysharedfloorstosleeponwhiletouringandthroughwhichtheyexchangedfake
creditcardnumbersforcallingcredittheyrequiredforbookinggigs.
Whereas the closed-knit scene of the late 70s and early 80s relied on word-of-
mouth,gigsassocialgatheringsanddirectmailcorrespondencewiththebandmem-
bers, nowadays the international community is facilitated by the internet. Though
manystilloftensendcashinenvelopesforrecords,thecataloguesarenolongersent
bysnailmail.Blogsareamagnificentsourceofmusicandinformationonotherwise
out-of-printandimpossibletofindrecordings.
I was personally introduced to hardcore and anarcho-punk by a couple of DIY
compilation tapes traded with the drummer of Bordeaux d-beat group Gasmask
Terror. Incidentally he also runs his own Ratbone Records which released a compi-
lation of songs by the polyglot French band Heimat-Los (German for “without a
fatherland”).Suchsentimentsreverberatethroughouttheglobalcommunity,asdis-
played in Berlin’s squat-cum-club Katerholzig, where the words “No Countries, No
Borders”arepaintedhighenoughtobereadfromtheU-Bahn.
The sound of punk has been seeded with reggae by Jamaican New Yorkers Bad
Brains,orfunkedupbythelateMinutemen,butpuristsstillremain.Aslongasyou
doityourself,noonehastherighttotakeitaway.
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
14
Japandroids: live
How much noise can two people
make? I thought the decibel limit was
set by Kat and Alﬁe from Eastenders
or possibly Gordon Brown on a bad
day, but it seems that Brian King and
David Prowse can beat them all with
the intense garage rock made by Ja-
pandroids. I used to really love this
band three years ago when their debut
Post-Nothing arrived with a huge slab
of hype and a shimmer of reverb, but
I had somewhat forgotten about them
until quite recently. Their second al-
bum Celebration Rock sounds more
mature but, while lacking much of the
coverage that they once commanded,
they continue to produce spectacular
noise-pop. Japandroids may have dis-
appeared from my radar for a while
but when the chance to see them play
at Heaven, I jumped at the opportu-
nity.
The crowd in Heaven was absolutely
packed in and the anticipation to see
one of Vancouver’s ﬁnest exports (sor-
ry 2010 Winter Olympic Games, you
are not so cool) was tangible. Starting
the night with “The Boys are Leaving
Town” and newie “Adrenaline Night-
shift” it was clear that Japandroids
were a heavy proposition, much dark-
er and louder than they are on record.
And for two people, my God they are
loud! The set was roughly divided
50:50 with songs from the new al-
bum and more well-known numbers.
“Rockers East Vancouver” and “Wet
Hair” were deﬁnitely highlights and
the crowd gave a massive cheer to new
single “The House that Heaven Built”.
The one song, however, that I have al-
ways loved by Japandroids is “Crazy/
Forever” and they certainly gave it jus-
tice with a thrilling performance.
Unfortunately, towards the end of
the set the band struggled to over-
come technical diﬃculties with vocal
levels which slightly marred the show.
Brian King admirably fought on and
just ended up shouting to the audi-
ence: true punk spirit if ever I have
seen it. Once the sound problems
were ﬁxed the show came to a thrilling
ﬁnale with a cover of The Gun Club’s
“For the Love of Ivy” . The band in-
vited one lucky member of the crowd
to come up and then stage-dive head
ﬁrst into the heaving crowd and be
carried around in the air for as long
as possible. One excitable fellow got
up but then ruined his chance by try-
ing to rep his own band. What a loser.
And so, when the opening chords of
song crashed into light there were
huge cheers as one lucky guy had the
time of his life being thrown around
the adoring crowd while his favourite
band totally destroyed his eardrums.
All in all it was a fantastic night.
I had forgotten how fun straight up
punk shows could be. Japandroids are
so dedicated to their fans and it makes
for a glorious night when their epic
tunes combine with the sweat and
shakes of a relatively small venue. A
Friday night well spent!
Mark England Music Editor
Mark England chews the cud with Japandroids
Brian King, lead singer and guitarist of
Japandroids, talked to me about Lon-
don. his favourite record and where
their awesome name originates from.
Where does the name Japandroids
come from?
There was no inspiration for the name
Japandroids speciﬁcally. As a matter of
fact, it was more of a compromise that
neither one of us were particularly ex-
cited about. Originally, Dave wanted
to name the band ‘Japanese Scream’,
which is from a Kings Of Leon lyr-
ic, while I wanted to name the band
‘Pleasure Droids’, which is a reference
to the pleasure droids in the movie
Blade Runner. Neither one of us liked
the other’s name, and we found our-
selves at an impasse. Being the diplo-
matic hero that I am, I decided to sim-
ply combine the two names into one
singular name: Japandroids.
How does London compare to other
cities you have toured?
London audiences are without ques-
tion our best audience within the
United Kingdom. When I tell them to
get wild, they generally do. We always
look forward to playing London for
that reason. With respect to other cit-
ies from around the world, it is a bit un-
fair to compare one against the other,
as what you’re really comparing are the
social and cultural diﬀerences between
peoples. For example, the Spanish au-
dience and the English audience are
inherently diﬀerent as the ritual of how
one reacts to live rock and roll music is
rooted deep in the history of the peo-
ple and their way of life. Therefore, you
can’t say ‘Barcelona is better than Lon-
don’ or things of that nature. It is just
diﬀerent. See? Diplomatic hero.
Was Celebration Rock worth the
three year wait?
When you factor in that we toured
for almost two full years behind Post-
Nothing, it is really more of a one year
wait. At least, I can’t help but see it
that way. I certainly think it was worth
taking our time to record an album
we were proud of, and I don’t regret
the resulting wait in the least. If we
could have done it faster, believe me,
we would have (for a band like ours,
there is no incentive to have such gaps
between albums). Nevertheless, the
reaction from our fans seems to be
extremely positive, and I think as time
goes by, our decision to take the time
we needed to write and record this par-
ticular album (rather than expediently
shitting out a mediocre follow-up) will
be seen as rather responsible.
What is it like being a two person
band on the road?
More or less like backpacking around
Europe with your girlfriend or boy-
friend. More or less, anyway.
Very romantic!
To ﬁnish oﬀ with, in a short but sweet
manner, what is the best record you
have ever bought?
Nighthawks At The Diner (Tom Waits,
1975)
Much appreciated Brian.
Little did he know, his
penis had just caught fire

