Great films I hate (or why I should
Katy Bettany Yeap, still here...
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
Following on from last week’s feature,
'Shit ﬁlms I love', I decided to contin-
ue my public shaming. The following
ﬁlms have caused much contension
in the Felix Oﬃce – one in particu-
lar is one of my co-Editor's favourite
ﬁlms. But I'm sure everyone has been
there – watching a ﬁlm that everyone
else thinks is amazing/wonderful/life-
changing (delete as appropriate), but
you just can't understand what the
fuss is about. It's not that I can't ap-
preciate the intrinsic cinematic worth
of some of these ﬁlms, because I can,
but that doesn't mean I enjoy watch-
ing them. And if everyone can resist
the temptation to lynch me/form an
angry mob on campus I'd be very ap-
preciative...
Lord of the Rings Trilogy
(2001, 2002, 2003)
So. Boring. I'm going to admit right
away that I struggle with fantasy – I
ﬁnd it hard to relate to as a genre. I also
appreciate simplicity in a ﬁlm - too
many things to remember/too many
characters or species or whatever and
I get frustrated. If I'm going to have to
work so hard to watch a ﬁlm, it bet-
ter have something special to say (and
frankly these ﬁlms don't reap much in
terms of reward.)
But, that's not to say I can't appre-
ciate the fantastic things about this
trilogy. The sheer level of eﬀort is in-
credible: the eﬀects, costuming, cine-
matography and scale. And the acting
callibre is amazing, but none of this
saves the ﬁlms from essentially being
long, quite same-y, action sequences.
I think the truth about this trilogy
is they are wonderfully executed, but
based on a story that I care little for.
I have the same problem with the
books – there is a limit to the amount
I care about a gang of tiny, jewellery-
obsessed hairy men.
Donnie Darko (2001)
Where to begin? I think the main is-
sue is that I just don't get it. I suspect
I'm not alone in this – I have this sus-
picion that most people just pretend
to get whatever the hell it is about,
but, really, they haven't got a fucking
clue. Jake Gyllenhaal plays a teenager
haunted by hallucinations of a large
rabbit, which manipulates him to go
on a crime spree. Mixing sci-ﬁ, black
comedy and mental illness was always
going to be tricky, and from a young,
practically unknown ﬁlmmaker even
more so. Nobody can fault the writer
director Richard Kelly for his imagi-
nation and conﬁdence of style (which
would be impressive even in an es-
tablished director), but he pollutes
an interesting story with confusing
imagery and too much plot layering.
Donnie Darko is probably more style
than substance, but even the style
misses the mark. Too chaotic and too
weird for me, and I still don't know
what Kelly was trying to say, despite
the ﬁlm's dedicated cult following.
Revolutionary Road (2008)
This ﬁlm saw DiCaprio and Winslet
reunited for the ﬁrst time since Titan-
ic in 1997, so naturally I was curious to
see how their chemisty had changed
on screen over ten years on. They
play a suburban couple, the Wheelers,
whose loveless marriage is irrevocably
disintegrating. I understand why this
ﬁlm is the way it is – slow and stilted
– reﬂecting the mundane suburbia
the couple ﬁnd themselves in. They
represent the bourgeoise of post war
America, plagued by lack of purpose,
hopeless consumerism and the stasis
Sin City (2005)
This ﬁlm disturbed me so much I can't
look at Elijah Wood without imagin-
ing him limbless and smiling, being
gnawed on by a wolf (maybe that's part
of the reason I hate LOTR so much.) I
know that the ﬁlm is visually a piece
of genius – the production design and
cinematography is AMAZING, as is
the original score. It has a great cast,
but overall I think the ﬁlm falls into
the same 'more style than substance'
category. A less than memorable story
and overly extreme violence are not
made up for by slick camera work and
wonderful colour palette and visual
shaping.
of everyday life. It has amazing pro-
duction design and is beautifully shot
by director Sam Mendes. But just be-
cause I can appreciate the ﬁlm in an
objective way, doesn't mean I enjoy it.
The book, written in the 60s by Rich-
ard Yates, was full of black humour in
a way that the ﬁlm isn't, but also al-
lowed for much more connection with
the Wheelers. Investment in the cou-
ple is essential for the audience of this
ﬁlm, because the scripting is light, and
the plot even more so – without it, de-
spite its style and moving depiction of
the subtleties of the human condition,
the ﬁlm failed to keep my attention.
Stages of watching Donnie Darko: bored, bored, DAFUQ?!?
"Dammit, I thought I got rid of you on that boat..."

