dn’t be a Film Editor: The Sequel)
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
Fantasia (1940)
I love Disney animation. But this ﬁlm
disappointed me greatly as a child – I
kept waiting for the main feature to
begin. I couldn't fathom a ﬁlm without
dialogue at that age, and the sinking
feeling I felt when I realised this is just
animation set to music upsets me no
less even now. The animation is great
(come on, this is Disney, of course it
is) but the concept of animation based
on music instead of coherent storyline
doesn't work for me. And I hate the
music.
Fight Club (1999)
The inclusion of this ﬁlm on my list
nearly caused a real ﬁght in one of my
lectures (not really, but I like to im-
agine people get as worked up about
ﬁlms as I do). This ﬁlm starts really
well, but it unravels in an epically pre-
tentious fashion towards the end,
becoming a victim of its own clever-
ness. The ﬁlm is about masculinity
crisis, starring Edward Norton as a
twitchy 'every man' type, who, when
discontented with his dead-end job,
forms a ﬁght club with Pitt, a sales-
man. The ﬁght scenes are excellently
constructed, and the audio post work
is deliciously ﬂinch-worthy. And the
ﬁlm has an interesting premise – but
the twist at the end is inexpertly ex-
ecuted. For all the ﬁlm's pretension, by
the end it ceases to make any kind of
sense. I've been reliably informed that
the book on which the ﬁlm is based
is much more coherent. Finally, one
of the most annoying things in ﬁlms
is when the beautiful hero escapes
dangerous situations unrealistically
unmaimed – Pitt barely sustains more
than a scratch.
Napoleon Dynamite (2004)
Probably my most hated, yet well ex-
ecuted ﬁlm of all time. Widely found
to be hilarious, yet I can’t seem to fath-
om why. Essentially nothing happens
– 90 minutes of nothing. Intended to
be deadpan and quirky, I would rather
punch myself in the face repeatedly
American Beauty (1999)
I don’t know if my co-Editor will ever
talk to me again after including this,
but I can’t pretend to like this ﬁlm. The
ﬁlm has a great concept, is subversive
and well executed in terms of direc-
tion, but I couldn’t relate or even con-
nect in an objective way to any of the
characters. Kevin Spacey plays a father
infatuated with his daughter’s hot best
friend (Mena Suvari). The ﬁlm is sup-
posed to be a tragicomedy about mid-
dle class American life, but at times
the ﬁlm verges on the pretentious (the
iconic scene with Suvari frolicking on
a bed of roses – rose petals forming a
visual motive throughout – a prime
example of this). I don’t hate this ﬁlm,
but I certainly can’t see why it is so
highly regarded (clearly I am in the
minority here – it won an Academy
Award for Best Picture.) But for me:
underwhelming and self important.
than watch this ﬁlm again. That said,
the ﬁrst time full length director Jared
Hess creates an excellent framework
for comedy (a fact almost insulting
given the cinematic results.) There is
plenty of room provided for lead Jon
Heder to shine, but his lack of future
career success suggests that he lacked
the skill to make Napoleon remotely
likeable. In short, Napoleon Dynamite
is a ﬁlm a lot less cool than it clearly
thinks it is.
Nick Clegg has been
promoted up to tea
making duty!
Promote yourself to Film
writer by emailing
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This guy clearly sees something he likes...

