FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
John Park Film Editor
The Master
Director: Paul Thomas Anderson
Screenwriter: Paul Thomas
Anderson
Starring: Joaquin Phoenix, Philip
Seymour Hoffman, Amy Adams
There is no denying that Paul Thomas
Anderson (Magnolia, There Will be
Blood) is the most bold and intelligent
director around. He is fearless in un-
dertaking a challenging topic, and his
deliberate ambiguity in his characters,
the deep complexities, the uncomfort-
able situations, hard-hitting scenarios,
all make their appearances: very lit-
tle changes in his hotly anticipated
The Master. Dense, heavy narrative?
Check. Top-notch performances?
Check. You get the feeling that there
is something great here – an insightful
character study of sorts, delving into
Kneel, obey, submit, comply, surrender
a struggling man’s psyche, but due to
the many obstacles that stand in the
way of the ﬁlm being a widely acces-
sible experience, it sadly misses out on
becoming a classic.
Although loosely based on the rise
in popularity of the controversial re-
ligion Scientology, it would be a mis-
take to assume that this is in any way
a piece of expose. Instead we concen-
trate solely on the story of Freddie
(Phoenix), a traumatised World War II
Navy veteran who has lost his way. Al-
cohol and sex are the two things that
he’s addicted to, and he has a special
knack for producing his own quality
booze wherever he ends up. Not able
to secure a job due to his ﬁery, uncon-
trollable temper, he decides to sneak
aboard a yacht, where a life-changing
encounter occurs.
He has very little recollection of the
night he crashed the extravagant party
thrown by Lancaster Todd (Hoﬀman).
But Todd is intrigued: Freddie’s vola-
tile behaviour, his childlike qualities,
his aimless path, and last but not least,
his exceptional ability to make his own
very unique brand of alcohol. Todd is
the founder of a philosophical move-
ment known as “The Cause” and with
that he believes it is his duty to help
out the lost Freddie, and make him re-
alise his true potential, as well as his
place and purpose in life. He’s char-
ismatic, well-spoken, intelligent, and
knows what to say when.
Essentially he is very good at what
he does, as he inspires and moves peo-
ple, which is why he has so many loyal
supporters. His wife, Peggy (the steely
cold but underused Adams), is one of
his biggest devotees, respecting eve-
rything he’s achieved thus far, ﬁrmly
believing that their organisation has
much more to accomplish. The sud-
den arrival of this unstable individual
is a cause for alarm, as she casts a wea-
ry set of eyes on the stranger. Their son
Val (Jesse Plemons) however, is less
convinced about his father’s endeav-
our: “he’s making all this up as he goes
along… you don’t see that?”
So what is Todd up to? Is he a fraud?
Or does he actually believe in what
he’s doing? His methods of teaching
on human psychology, the repetitive
experiments he subjects his members
to seem crazy and unnerving, but for
a broken man like Freddie, this alter-
nate way of guidance, as well as Todd’s
open arms and generosity become ir-
resistible. Todd very gently pulls out
the necessary answers from Freddie,
what happened to him in the past,
what has hurt him most, his insecu-
rities: all buried deep in his complex
mind web.
And of course, the pair of Volpi Cup
winning performances can truly be
summed up as a brilliant master class
in acting perfection, a duo so well
matched that their eﬀorts will not go
unnoticed. With Phoenix it’s those un-
ﬂinching eyes that do most of the talk-
ing. Whenever he loses his way, his
downward spiral is quite the dramatic
and disturbing one, with Phoenix quite
literally giving all he’s got physically
to the role. His erratic, unpredictable
changes, at times bordering on psy-
chosis are so utterly mesmerising that
if he would only stop trash-talking the
Oscars, he could score an easy win.
Equally impressive is Hoﬀman, as
the enigmatic leader, calmly using his
words and civility to spread his mes-
sage. He also succeeds in painting a
vague picture around the core of his
character: at times he seems to believe
every word he’s preaching, but there
are moments where he himself seems
to be lost for answers. Is he a fraud? Is
he leading a cult? Is he as smart as eve-
ryone makes him out to be? We will
never truly know.
Full of unclear ideas, the ﬁlm fails
to be a truly compelling one. The
relationship between the two men
seems to be the main focus but even
that doesn’t give the audience a clear
enough perception into them to
maintain enough drama and interest
throughout its running time. And as
is the case with most Anderson’s ﬁlms,
everything looks phenomenal. The
much lauded 70mm does bring out
the enhanced quality and his many
close-ups into the outstanding actors
further give them a chance to shine in
their diﬃcult roles. But here is a ﬁlm
that falls short of true grandeur and
greatness due to its lack of exploration
into its initially fascinating subject
matter.
He’s just not that into her...nor should he be
What happens to selﬁsh, money-hun-
gry, cold, heartless bastards in Holly-
wood ﬁlms? They meet a kid. Or they
meet a woman. Or both. And oh look,
they do have hearts after all, because
they’re human – and everybody has a
heart, right? There, I’ve just summed
up the main story behind People Like
Us, a mostly generic dysfunctional
family drama that could have served
well as a brief story-arc on a daytime
soap. But I say “mostly” generic, be-
cause the ﬁlm does try to explore its
characters more, not always resorting
to stereotypes, and ends on one pow-
erful punch of a ﬁnale.
Sam (Pine) is a struggling business-
man whose latest deal lands him in a lot
of trouble that also costs him ﬁnancial-
ly. To make matters worse he receives
news that his estranged legendary
record-producing father has passed
away from cancer. Although trying
to avoid his tense and uncomfortable
home, he eventually makes it back to
his now very much depressed and dis-
appointed mother Lillian (Pfeiﬀer). As
if his life couldn’t get any more compli-
cated, his father has left a little task for
him to complete: a shaving kit contain-
ing 150,000 dollars, enough to cover
his debts. But the money isn’t for him.
It’s for a certain Josh Davis (Michael
Hall D’Addario).
The connection? The kid’s mother.
Frankie (Banks), a recovering alcohol-
ic as well as bartender, is the mother,
who also happens to be the illegiti-
mate daughter of the recently passed
record producer. Sam and Frankie are
half-siblings. It’s a part of his father’s
life that was always kept a secret from
him; no surprises there. The only prob-
lem is that now it’s up to Sam to carry
out this act of kindness to an almost
stranger when he can’t even sort his
life out. It would be easy to take the
money and run. And it’s not as though
this thought hasn’t crossed his mind.
But he decides to stay put, get close to
them for a while, and get to know the
family he never thought he had.
Creepy? Perhaps. He is essentially
stalking these two. At an Alcohol-
ics Anonymous meeting Frankie an-
nounces her disappointment at be-
ing completely left out of her father’s
eulogy in the papers. “It’s oﬃcial, I
don’t exist” she says, appearing strong
although clearly this identity issue is
aﬀecting her. And this is a great per-
formance from Banks, an actress who
can skillfully pull oﬀ sly, sarcastic,
conﬁdent comedy in a role that could
have been hampered by teary melo-
drama. She has that right mix of cheer-
ful charm as well as strong, intelligent
charisma that makes her damaged
character fascinating.
It’s Sam and Jack who connect ﬁrst,
through their mutual love of music.
Jack is a borderline sociopathic, self-
destructivemess,blowinguphisschool
pool with a chunk of sodium and get-
ting into all sorts of trouble. And as
Sam appears Jack does miraculously
sort out his issues almost immediately.
Pine, a likable actor who has his natu-
ral ways and a knack for playful wordy
dialogue, ﬁts into the role perfectly,
showing the progressions and changes
of his role with smooth ease. D’Addario
also plays delicately with a role that’s
not easy to warm to. He carries a lot
of built-up resentment and frustration
towards his mother, and presents with
the classic signs of a neglected, ignored
kid wanting some love.
Waiting for the plot to escalate to
its inevitable “confrontation” is quite
the long one, as the ﬁlm wants to
squeeze in as much sugary sweetness
as it possibly can before having to deal
with the heavier drama. The feel-good
moments are handled with predict-
able familiarity, mostly with the lovely
countryside serving as the backdrop,
accompanied by easy, soothing music,
where characters move about without
dialogue, sometimes in slow motion,
laughing and smiling at each other’s
company. It’s not a particularly bad
concept, and it’s certainly not unpleas-
ant to look at, but sometimes you just
want the ﬁlm to move on and check in
with reality.
It’s also an exciting added bonus
to see Pfeiﬀer, whose luminous pres-
ence is often underused, playing the
heartbroken widow and mother with
secrets and regrets of her own to bear.
Her unkept exterior, withdrawn, blank
looks all work tremendously to ﬁt her
role as the grieving woman, giving her
scenes much more power as well as
tranquillity.
There are scenes of heartstring tug-
ging emotions, some forced, some
genuine, but in the end the ﬁlm man-
ages to ﬁnd a good balance as it ex-
plores a very human, down-to-earth
set of characters and relatable plot
points. It’s not the most original, and
is a touch too long to be a truly com-
pelling drama, but here is a calm, col-
lected and thought-provoking oﬀering
that comes far too rarely.
John Park Film Editor
People Like Us
Director: Alex Kurtzman
Screenwriters: Alex Kurtzman,
Roberto Orci, Jody Lambert
Starring: Chris Pine, Elizabeth Banks,
Michelle Pfeiffer
Come get me booooyyyssss!!!
Too close? We don’t think so...

