LOLCATZ OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Science and relaxing
This week, the front page contains a
story about science spending cuts. It’s
all a bit economics heavy, but the gist
is that, in real terms, science spending
was cut by a lot in the 2010-2011 year.
At a science university it is not ex-
actly a contentious point to say that
science, and research and develop-
ment in general, is very important. It
will be pretty interesting to see what
the next move on this is. Will the
spending plummet further? It’s taken
quite a hit from what figures show,
and, given that in real terms it is the
lowest it has been for a while, it is
cause for some concern.
Science is really vital to everything.
I learnt from my project in my last
year that research isn’t cheap. Okay,
admittedly I had to use platinum and
gold for mine, but the point still stands
as everything in science is costly.
Getting a beaker made me shudder
and wonder how something so simple
could be so much. This was just one
minor project by one person. Imagine
how much one research group will
rack up (not just on test tube racks) in
one year of research? I hope next year
science spending increases.
ARTS FILM COMMENT
Moving artwork Goodfilmsthatsuck Right to be wrong
Some really emotional pho-
tography at the Barbican is re-
viewed in Arts this week. If only
I was allowed out of my cage in
Beit to go and see this.
Following on from last
week’s feature on truly awful
films that are still loveable,
the more contentious ‘great’
films that are a bit crap.
Comment is always pretty
lively, and, this week, Pi-
etro Aronica explains why
he thinks you should be al-
lowed to be incorrect.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
Medical Summarizer Wanted
Looking for 4th, 5th or 6th year medical student with medical understanding.
15 hours a week.
Crompton Medical Centre
London W2 1ND
For further details please contact Mr. Faisal Ahmed on 07776126204
Job Description - Summarizing all medical letters and discharge summaries
from Secondary Care (Hospitals) into the medical records for each patient at
the practice, clinical software used is EMIS LV.
Part-Time PA/Tech Person
Good with Apple computers and technology
Someone who wants to come in ground level start-up with new tech
company and dealing with tracking device sector.
Researcher and highly organised to work with the proprietor and
teams in London and Silicone Valley, California
General Office duties
Preferably CRB checked
Start off at 2 days per week
Total 8 to 10 hours per week at £10 per hour
Please send CV to kimrortiz@aol.com
Prezie Ambassador: See Tech for information (page 17)
>> 11 >>16 >>32
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana
Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray,
Simon Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editors Veronika
McQuade, Simon Carnochan Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor
Copy Editors Al Norman, Christopher Witham, Laurence de Lussy Kubisa, Julia Gherman, Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen
Freshly cut Chilling out
This week has been odd for me. It’s
been a really weirdly chilled out one for
some reason. Here I am, nearly about
to hit the print deadline. It’s made me
reflect a bit. I’ve thought about how
sometimes I spend too much time
obsessing about everything and wor-
rying about stuff. Sometimes, it’s nice
to just chill the fuck out and “keep
calm” as the all too often used slogan
goes.
I think this at a time when I know
that Christmas is looming (Oxford
Street already have their lights up).
That means one thing for Imperial stu-
dents: January exams. To all the fresh-
Sci
© Boris Mikhailov
ers reading this: try to stay calm over
Christmas. Relax with your family and
take, at very least, Christmas Day and
New Year’s Day off. It is all too easy to
get really hyped up about work and go
crazy. Especially because this will be
a step up from the last exam you did.
Don’t get complacent but don’t cause
yourself too much stress.
One thing that I simply can not chill
out about, though, is whoever walks
around the Library and SAC (Student
Activities Centre) and rips off every
single one of the keyboard supports.
It’s really annoying as they make typ-
ing slightly easier, and when my lab re-
port is due in in about 12 hours, I need
all the comforts that can possibly be
afforded to me. Seriously, not cool.

