My wild Irish prose
Max Eggl rewritesthehistoryoftheEmeraldIsleinCrusaderKingsII
ntro: Murchad mac Diarmata
(1026 – 1070) was a King of
Dublin and Leinster, and if
you haven’t heard of him, no
big deal. He didn’t really ac-
complish that much, and thus his name
has been lost in the realms of history.
However, last week, I decided, with the
aid of Crusader Kings 2, to give the name
of Murchad new meaning! Playing out
his life in full glory, and doing things dif-
ferently from the way he did, Murchad
(me) achieved crazy things! If you want
to discover how this historical ﬁgure
lived out his life in my alternate universe,
read his diary that was discovered and
translated just yesterday!
Anno 1066: To whomever will read
thisinthefuture,IamMurchadMacDi-
armata, Earl of Dublin! Hopefully when
I ﬁnish this document, I will be what I
have dreamed of, ever since I was a lit-
tle boy – to be the King of Ireland! I will
unite the Green Isle under one banner,
and make it the force that it deserves to
be. To accomplish this, I have a devious
plan, that hopefully will play out exactly
as I want it to. Firstly, my dad is the Earl
of Leinster, and therefore I will be the
Earl of Leinster when he ﬁnally kicks the
bucket... GOD why is it taking so long?
Patience, Murchad, patience, your time
will come, just gotta keep repeating that.
Secondly I have to change these god-
damn succession laws. I mean, C’MON,
who the hell still uses Gavelkind Suc-
cession these days? You’re like, “What’s
Gavelkind?” Exactly! No one even
knows about it. Well basically when I
die, my stuﬀ won’t go to my oldest child,
but will be split up in even bits for all of
them. The fact that I have 3 kids doesn’t
really help. So my ﬁrst plan on the
agenda is changing it to seniority suc-
cession! Boom Shakalaka, now Donnell
(my oldest son) is my heir! Perfetto, now
my realm won’t be split up when I meet
my maker! Next thing on the agenda is
getting rid of my chancellor. Seamus is a
such an idiot. He managed to insult the
Duke of Connacht’s wife while he was
standing next to her... God, I had to send
lots of horses and gifts to keep him from
going to war with me. I HAVE to get rid
of Seamus... hmmm I have to see about
that. I mean without a good chancellor
how am I supposed to fabricate claims
on other counties? Without any claims I
cant even legitimately take over places...
man this King of Ireland thing is looking
harder and harder to achieve.
Anno 1075: Oh God, where to start...
Well dad is ﬁnally pushing up the dai-
sies! That means I’m the Earl of Leinster!
Double trouble! I now have the armies
of Leinster and Dublin combined, which
makesmeoneofthemostpowerfulmen
(behind a few others) in Ireland! So now,
this power (and the extra cash) allowed
me to hatch a dastardly plot! I murdered
Seamus (yep, the chancellor, involving
an unfortunate incident including rocks
and a river), and installed his son Rhi-
ann! Such a beautiful plan, and Rhiann
doesn’t even have a clue!!!! Anyway, so I
sent Rhia of to Breifne to bribe my way
to claiming it for myself (and to stop him
from getting suspicious), and violá, 2
years later, I have the Causus Belli (rea-
son for war) I need to attack Breifne! So
in 1068, my troops overran that place,
and now you may also call me the Earl of
Breifne! So now with the army of three
counties, I looked for my next target!
Luckily for me Rhiann dug out an old
history book where it claimed (rather
dubiously) that Ossory was part of the
duchy of Leinster! Since I am the Earl
of Leinster, I mean it’s not thaaat much
of a step to be the duke, right? Well, you
might not agree, but it was enough for
me! I started calling myself the Duke
of Leinster (instead of just an earl!) and
now had the reason to take over Ossory!
Piece of cake!
Hmmmm what else happened....oh
yeah wifey died, can’t really remember
her name! She died about the same time
my bastard child (who I had with my
lover) was born... suspicious... Anyway, I
didn’t really want to spend the rest of my
life alone, so I looked round for a good
wife in the bridal catalogue, and then
my eyes fell upon her! Szoﬁá was a Pol-
ish princess (plus points!!) and an abso-
lute peach! Married her within a year of
wifey dying.
That’s it for now! Till next time!!! I have
great things planned, and Rhia has many
things in motion!
Anno 1086: Bad day for the house
mac Diarmata... Donnell passed away
from severe stress (is that even possi-
ble?!?!)... anyway gotta live on... at least
I have a beautiful grandson, Fáelán...
and even though he prefers to play with
dolls instead of swords, I think he has
a lot of promise. Anyway, “What’s new
on the King of Ireland front?” you ask.
Remember the Duke of Connacht? Well
his son, Ruadri, (whose mother had
been insulted) is being a right stroppy
little twit. I usurped the title of Duke of
Connacht(Breifnekindaispartofit,and
I mean, I’m a much better duke anyway)
and forced him to become my vassal,
all totally acceptable things! So he gets
pissed and starts plotting to kill Fáelán,
yeah I know, shocking. The NERVE of
some people. Really, I had him thrown
in to my dungeon... kinda was forced
to let him out though, after everyone
threatened to declare war on me. Sucks
to be not as powerful as all your enemies
combined. Oh yeah, I also took over
Ulster, after Rhi had fabricated a claim,
saying my uncle’s mother’s dog had been
the Earl of Ulster, which means it’s mine
now. Pretty standard stuﬀ. Also I cre-
ated the title of Duchy of Meath just be-
cause I could. Good times! That means
now I am the Duke of Meath, Leinster
and Connacht as well as the Earl of Ul-
ster. My plan is coming to fruition, soon
when I own more than half of Ireland,
I will be able to crown myself King of
Ireland, MUAHAHAHAHAHA!!!! (P.S.
Gotta do it fast though... I’m 60 now,
most people don’t even live to 50 these
days... gotta hurry up!)
Anno 1096: Ladies and gentlemen,
may we present you: THE KING OF
IRELAND!!!!! HAHAHAHAHAAH-
HAAHAH. Yes, dear reader, we have
successfully battled, bribed and fabri-
cated our way to the Irish throne! The
looks on the people’s faces when we an-
nounced our royal ancestry and there-
fore claim to the Irish throne was MAG-
NIFICENT. We are now known as King
Murchad I ‘the Great’ of Ireland! Sounds
great, we know! Anyway, once we had
risen to shoulder this great responsibil-
ity, we started to declare war on all the
rebel factions that still controlled more
than half of Ireland, and free the poor
helpless peasants (thinking about it... the
peasants weren’t actually that grateful;
punishment is in order). So, we decided
Thomond would be ﬁrst. Thomond, in
the southwest, was just a random tar-
get, seriously, who could withstand us
now!! However, for some reason, Brian
of Munster came to the aid of the Earl
of Thomond. Split my armies in two,
crushed him and crushed Thomond too.
However, we felt a bit merciful, as Brian
had become a cripple in some battle, so
we let him go home and keep Munster a
while longer. A year later, in our pledge
to free Ireland from the tyranny of rebel
lords, we took over Ormond and Des-
mond, then we were feeling generous,
and gave the royal Irish army Christmas
oﬀ! That’s all till now in Ireland.
So what’s up in England!? We have
been getting strange messages, that
there are now two factions in England,
one that styles itself as “Lancaster” and
one that calls itself “England”
. These
two seem to be at war with each other...
hmmmm I wonder at the possibilities.
If they are still ﬁghting once we have
mopped up here, we can perhaps cut
ourselves a slice oﬀ of England as well....
hmmmm!
Anno 1106: Yes dear reader, this King
is still alive and kicking, even though we
have reached the respectable age of 80!
So what has happened in the past few
years? We managed to free Oriol (1097),
Tyrone (1098, whose earl was waging
war in Scotland at the time. How consid-
erate, it made it that much more easier)
and ﬁnally Tyroconnel (1099). Finally,
controlofallofIreland!Success.Howin-
teresting,thatwe,asayoungchild,could
have dreamed so big and then achieved
it! Anyway Rhi was (and is) still around,
now Chancellor of Ireland (he certainly
moved up with us), and as we were
bored, we sent him to fabricate a claim
on the Isle of Man! Since he did ﬁnd a
record of our grandfather’s horse, be-
ing ridden by the Earl of the Isle of Man,
it followed that the Isle of Man should
be Irish property! We ourselves led the
armies there, and subsequently crushed
any resistance! Anyway, so Ruadri (re-
member him?) was plotting again, and
did manage to convince a few people
that HE was the Duke of Connacht...
He just doesn’t know when to give up!
Anyway, we ﬁnally had him executed,
as he was getting annoying and nobody
ever doubted us being the Duke of Con-
nacht anymore! A year ago, there were
revolts in Desmond... We are wonder-
ing why. With such a benevolent King,
who would ever want to revolt? Anyway,
we crushed the peasants and cruciﬁed
every tenth survivor! That should teach
them!
Oh... also Szoﬁá died. She was our
everything. We almost committed sui-
cide in the following months, but we
were too important to do that. However,
we swore to ourselves, that we would
remain celibate... at the age of 80 that is
easy anyway, we think! Anyway we are
very tired now... more tired than usual.
We hope that we our kingdom survives
and lives on... Fáelán will have to make
an amazing king, to hold all the earls
in check. We however do not care any-
more, we are giving this kingdom to the
next generation.
The following day, the King was found
dead!Hehadpeacefullydiedinhissleep.
While this story may be over, the story
of Fáelán and the Kingdom of Ireland is
not!
Conclusion: Now you may be won-
dering, if what I wrote here is a pure
ﬁgment of my imagination. I swear to
you, it is not! All that was written by
Murchad, actually did really occur in the
game! So if you are thinking, “Hey this
game sounds way cool!” then get your-
selves a copy of Crusader Kings 2, and
see who you can make King. Create your
own history!
I Not pictured – the destruction of the
University of Oxford. Finally
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
22
COME AT ME BRAH....!
OH GOD! Don’t hit me! Anything but
the face! It took hours to look like this!

