TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
More Jelly Bean and Nexus
hile Hurricane
Sandy was wreck-
ing havoc on the
East Coast of
America, those of
us on the other side of the pond were
left disappointed when Google had to
cancel a press event in New York. But
fear not – for Google has managed to
release new details on a new version
of Android and a new family of Nexus
of devices that are available right now,
by press time.
Android 4.2 - Still Jelly Bean
Android 4.2 is a new version of An-
droid, still called Jelly Bean (after
Google’s propensity to name Android
versions alphabetically after deserts),
that brings incremental changes to
keep Android ahead of its competi-
tion. The version sees improvements
in its camera, security and usability
features among many others. Of in-
terest to most users would be the
camera and usability enhancements.
Camera Enhancements
If you’ve ever seen those Google
Street View cars ply along the roads
taking sneaky photos of unsuspecting
pedestrians for publication on Google
Maps, you might be glad to know that
you can also do that now in Android
4.2. Dubbed “Photo Sphere”, you can
use the same technology that pow-
ers the Street View cameras in your
phone to take 360 degrees panorama
shots worthy of your non-Android
friends’ envy. If you count yourself
as an expert photographer, you can
even upload them to Google Maps
for sharing with the rest of the world.
The camera has received a new inter-
face that allows you quick access to
camera settings. Of course, this new
update also comes with the obliga-
tory increase in the number of ﬁlters
available that allow people to further
“instagram-ise” their photos without
needing to use Instagram.
Usability Enhancements
Google Now, the software that makes
use of the tons of data that Google
has on you to provide you with useful
and timely live information, has been
updated to make use of even more of
your data – your emails! Google Now
will now remind you of any ﬂight
check-ins, hotel check-ins and even
delivery timings. This is not a new
feature for Android 4.2 per se as it’s
available for (the few) Android 4.1 de-
vices out there as well.
Android 4.2 also introduces sev-
eral usability enhancements to bring
about extra polish to the interface and
keep Android in front of competi-
tion. Quick settings is now available
in the notiﬁcation shade that allows
you to access frequently used set-
tings. This can be activated by a but-
ton in the notiﬁcation shade or by
swiping down the notiﬁcation shade
with two ﬁngers. Widgets can now be
placed on the lock screen, allowing
you quick access to information with-
out unlocking the phone. The default
Android keyboard now has “Swype”
features allowing you to slide your
ﬁngers across the keys to type. Mul-
tiple user proﬁles are also available on
Android tablets.
Family of Nexus Devices
It may be well and nice that Android
4.2 has some new exciting features
but, as carriers and Original Equip-
ment Manufacturers (OEMs) like to
do what they do best, many phones
might never see the update. This is
why Google has the Nexus series of
devices that allow you to experience
the purest Android version that will
receive any updates to Android ﬁrst.
And for the ﬁrst time, Google has an-
nounced a family of Nexus Devices
that are “worthy of the Nexus name”.
There is the Nexus 4, 7 and 10 for
a 4 inch phone, 7 inch tablet and the
10 inch tablet respectively. They are
available now on Google Play store
for very competitive prices. The un-
locked 16GB version of Nexus 4 is
available for just £279. The Nexus 4
has received very positive reviews
from major news outlets. The Nexus
10 sports an impressive 2560 x 1600
pixels screen that puts the iPad’s reti-
na display to shame, in terms of hard
numbers at least.
While consumers drool over the de-
vices, Google has strategic reasons for
introducing the whole host of Nexus
devices. The ﬁrst reason is to cater to
enthusiasts who like to have the un-
adulterated Android experience while
having any updates pushed to them
ﬁrst. Think of these devices like the
devices Apple releases – ﬁrst class cit-
izens in terms of software treatment.
The Nexus programme has always
been envisioned to be the hardware
benchmarks for the other OEMs to
follow. By having stellar hardware
with a good software experience,
Yong Wen Chua checks out Androids latest OS and looks at Nexus
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
W
25
Google hopes to spur the OEMs to
produce hardware that match and ex-
ceed that of the Nexus devices. It also
hopes that OEMs will be motivated
to provide updates in a timely man-
ner and not to bog down their devices
with additional software that will
hamper the user experience.
Most importantly, the new Nexus
devices hope to spur the development
of tablet applications for the Android
platform. As Tim Cook very nicely
pointed out in his iPad mini keynote,
the tablet application ecosystem on
Android is atrocious. After releasing
the Nexus 7 earlier this year, there
has been an increase in the number
of developers adapting their applica-
tions to the 7 inch form factor. Google
hopes that this will happen again as
high quality 10 inch tablets enter the
market and set a trend. As the 7 inch
applications work well on the 10 inch
screens, Google is looking to the Nex-
us 7 and the Nexus 10 as “bootstraps”
for more tablet applications.
Future Nexus and Key Lime
Pie
With the holiday season upon us,
Google is hoping that more consum-
ers will buy Android devices, especial-
ly the tablets. With Android phones
already dominating the smartphone
market, Google is eyeing the tablet
market with great interest, seeing that
Apple has held its dominance with
the iPad for quite a while. The new
Nexus devices look great, in terms of
performance, usability and aesthetics.
We can only wait with bated breath to
see what they have in store next year
with a whole new series of Nexus de-
vices and the next version of Android
slated to be called “Key Lime Pie”.
Three screenshots from the new camera enhancements:
Panoramics (above), quick access controls (middle) and hipster filters (right)
Prezi Ambassador
Prezi, that awesome presentation software, are looking for an
Imperial Ambassador, could you be it?
The Prezi Ambassador is responsible for increasing the
“Prezense” at Imperial and giving out a ton of cool Prezi goodies.
The role also includes the chance to go to California or Budapest to
intern at Prezi as well as win prizes (including iPads).
To find out more check out the official Prezi for the Ambassador
programme at: http://goo.gl/Kx5AM
All interested candidates should e-mail Ashley:
ashley.whitlatch@prezi.com

