What’s In My Lunchbox? #01
Carol Ann Cheah ponders “ladies who (liquid) lunch” this winter
h, winter. The season
when just about eve-
rything seems to drop:
temperatures, num-
ber of daylight hours,
moods, hemlines (well, depending.)
It’s around this time of the year when
us Food Editors face a dilemma when
packing our lunches – we need more
warm/hot sustenance, so our fallback
of sarnies and salads just won’t do,
even with a cuppa after. At the same
time though, QTR/FiveSixEight/East-
side Bar meals can add up, and we’re
really not about to give up the packed
lunch habit yet.
Enter soup, our favourite solution
(ha!) to the issue at hand. It’s an every-
man’s meal that’s more than your “fa-
vourite freshers’ ﬂu remedy”, or the
typical posh-restaurant starter.
There’s a reason we love them so
much. They’re not just fun to eat;
they’re a great way to use up leftovers,
and keep well in the freezer so can
be made well in advance (lazy week-
end cooking, anyone?) The most ba-
sic concoctions won’t take you hours
to slave over or require some fancy
French cooking technique; but once
you’ve built up your skills and conﬁ-
dence, soup recipes then have plenty
of wiggle room for you to start jazzing
them up more. The end product can
be as cheap or expensive as you want:
it depends on your ingredients. If your
cooking process does NOT include
the directions “pull back tin lid” or
“microwave on HIGH for ** minutes”,
all the better.
“Soup” is such an umbrella term: it
encompasses every ﬂavour and tex-
ture imaginable. Some days we enjoy
rich, decadent “cream of” concoc-
tions; other days, clearer Asian broths
(miso and the like) are more up our al-
ley. Still other days we’re privy to get-
ting our handblenders out and slurp-
ing our pureed results after.
Of course, we’re all analytical people
here at Imperial; so what’s the use of
this feature if we don’t give you a de-
tailed breakdown of this dish’s anato-
my to pore over?
Lock...
As said before, the ingredient combi-
nations are endless when it comes to
soup. Stuﬀ like chicken, mushroom,
tomato, pumpkin and pea etc are the
usual fail-safe staples, so you can’t go
wrong with those ﬂavours if you’re just
starting out. It’s then up to you to mix
in whatever takes your fancy – we once
experimented with a chicken, seafood
and chorizo concoction, which we
thought only existed in paella. How
wrong we were.
Soup’s commonly consumed with
a side of crusty bread to ﬁll you up
better; but that isn’t always needed.
To make soups heartier, the options
are yet again limitless. Mulligatawny
uses rice as its starch of choice, oth-
ers use dried or tinned beans (do boil
the dried beans in water ﬁrst to soften
though.) A very easy option (and one
you’ve probably come across as a kid
in the form of alphabet soup) is pasta;
chucking in boiled pasta bits in a soup
is a good way to make them go further.
For thickening, it again depends
what your ingredients are. If you’ve got
potatoes, peas, pumpkin or the like,
chances are you’ll probably be doing
the thickening job by pureeing with a
handblender. “Cream of” soups tend to
have ﬂour sprinkled on the ingredients
and then stirred in to make a roux just
before the liquid is added to it. If you
do that, stir it as thoroughly as you can;
but don’t worry about the odd lump –
it’ll go when the liquid is added in.
Stock...
Whatever way you look at it, stock
is pretty much at the heart of soups.
Asians even have the term “master
stock” for their broths; in their soups,
if you fudge the stock up it’s bust for
the ﬁnished soup – there’s nothing
to mask it, so there’s nowhere for the
stock to “hide” (unlike some soups
that puree the ingredients after.) Stock
matters because there’s no use hav-
ing ﬂavourful ingredients in a “broth”
of plain water; that would be akin to
leaving your veggies in the water that
you used to boil them and drinking
said water. Tasteless – why would you?
Stock-making tends to vary from
laborious methods that produce rich
and complex broths, to simple “bung-
in-and-forget” methods as well. We
appreciate that what you prefer will
depend on how much time you have/
are willing to spare – we’re into in-
stant gratiﬁcation as well. Our method
of choice involves bunging a chicken
carcass/chicken bones (from a roast
chicken, or raw direct from your
butcher for cheap) in a pot with some
chopped onion and garlic cloves, plus
some chopped leftover veg (leek/
carrot/celery works well) with just
enough water to cover. Bring to the
boil, skim impurities, lower heat, leave
for half an hour and adjust seasoning
– then strain and use immediately, or
fridge/freeze portions. If you can’t get
hold of a carcass, making from fresh
with wing tips keeps the cost down
but maintains ﬂavour.
Unlike baking, soup isn’t an exact
science – it’s very much “handful of
this/pinch of that” cooking. If it’s too
thick, add stock/water/milk; if it’s
lacking in ﬂavour, season a bit. Be
careful though, go slow when you do
this – you can always add, but ye can-
nae take away!
If you *really* must use store-
bought stock cubes/bouillon, check
the amount of salt that’s already there.
Chances are you probably won’t need
to add extra salt.
A
FOOD
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
26
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
...and two smoking barels
There are two important...er, ves-
sels you’ll be needing in the process,
amongst others. The ﬁrst is obviously
the (stock)pot, where all the magic
happens. Make sure it’s nice and big
enough to hold your ingredients, with
a bit more room at the top – lest you
run the risk of things boiling over and
losing some of your end product (be
it stock or the actual soup.) If you’re
pressed for time, a pressure cooker
works well in getting your meat and
veg soft in half the time (or less) usual-
ly required by traditional on-the-stove
boiling – just make sure you read the
instructions.
The other important vessel is what
you’ll be transporting your soup in
for that packed lunch. It needs to seal
properly, unless you’re particularly
keen on consuming remnants of your
lunch from your lovely lecture print-
outs or the inside of your bag. We
like our trusty Thermos-es – for the
more liquid ones you’ll be ﬁne with
standard Thermos ﬂasks (same ones
meant for hot water/coﬀee/etc); but
for the heartier ones that actually need
a spoon, you’ll deﬁnitely need those
food jars with a wider mouth to com-
fortably dip your spoon in. These can
cost anything from a ﬁver to almost
twenty quid, depending on the retailer.
If you’re really cheap, wide-mouth
Mason jars that are used for jam/hon-
ey will work if you’re using it to store
frozen soup portions, and have access
to a microwave (just leave room for ex-
pansion during freezing.) Take out the
frozen soup jars in the morning, bag
them, and then reheat until piping hot
during lunch.
Cream of mushroom soup with crispy bacon bits
Ingredients:
4 rashers bacon, rind off and chopped
into small bits (both streaky and back
bacon are fine) -– optional garnish
1 onion, finely chopped
2-4 cloves garlic, finely chopped (de-
pends how much you like it)
375g mushrooms, finely chopped
(use any kind of fresh mushrooms
you want, or even a mix. I made this
with a mix of chestnut and white,
portobellos would work)
2-3 tablespoons of plain flour
600ml stock (chicken/vegetable)
100-200ml milk (adjust according to
taste/consistency)
150ml double cream
Oregano and parsley (dried is okay)
Oil or butter for frying
Bacon garnish: Heat up a small
amount of oil in a frying pan, then
bung in the bacon bits and fry until
crisp. Remove and set aside on paper
towels to drain.
Saute the onion, garlic and mush-
rooms in oil/butter until fragrant,
soft and just starting to colour. Sprin-
kle the flour on and stir until evenly
mixed, then add stock and milk. Bring
to the boil, then let simmer for up to
30 minutes (you’ll see it thicken up
nicely.) Taste and adjust seasoning –
add some oregano at this stage.
Add in half of the cream (75ml)
and stir, then pour into bowls. Whip
the rest of the cream until stiff peaks
form. Garnish with the bacon bits, a
spoonful of the whipped cream, and
a sprinkling of chopped parsley. Omit
the extra whipped cream if you’re
packing this for lunch.
Serve with a slice of crusty but-
tered bread – feeds 4 as a starter, or
2 as a main meal.
I souppose you want a
pun here or something?

