“
COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
30
t’s seven AM, I’ve been up for
two-and-a-half hours, and the
Portland Stone of Whitehall is
quite literally glowing a mag-
niﬁcent golden-cream in the
cool warmth of the winter morning’s
sun. As a student you can imagine that
I’m not predisposed to having a great
sympathy for waking up at the unholy
hour of four-thirty AM, unless for
a ludicrously inexpensive ﬂight. But
here I am – with another four hours
still to wait for what I came for; al-
ready starting to lose the feeling in my
extremities from the cold.
I cannot extol the virtues of liberty
enough – appreciation of liberty is
something that deﬁnes much of me and
my thoughts: I can only imagine that
someone who would wish to happily
surrender their own liberties, or take
away anyone else’s liberty is utterly de-
ranged, or just insidiously stupid. This
is why I’m here, waiting for nearly ﬁve
hours in temperatures that only Antarc-
tic research scientists could ever be pre-
pared for. Our servicemen and women
have fought for our liberty (and for the
liberty of our Dominions) in the past
and continue to do so: I’m here to pay
my thanks to them for this incredible
gift of truly immeasurable wealth.
Having checked the information for
the event with the Department for Cul-
ture, Media and Sport, I decided to ar-
rive early in the hope of getting a good
viewing point, close to the Cenotaph,
our central memorial to the fallen. I
couldn’t have imagined that I would
have arrived early enough to be at the
front of the barriers, about ﬁfteen me-
tres from the memorial itself. Instructed
to ‘stand easy’, members of the Royal
Gurkha Regiment assembled to my left
and, to my right, the Scots Guards; with
their enormous ceremonial bearskin
hats. After representations of several
units from diﬀerent areas of our armed
forces had convened, the politicians and
the royal family came out of the Foreign
and Commonwealth Oﬃce building. A
better view I could not have wished for –
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II stands
at twelve o’clock (in the gap between
the obscuring bearskins) – ten metres
away, with David Cameron, Nick Clegg,
Ed Miliband, Boris Johnson and former
I
Remembering the fallen
James Dickson reports from the service at the Cenotaph
Prime Ministers Tony Blair and Sir John
Major further in the background.
Never had a silence been so pen-
etrating and poignant to me. At eleven
am, on the eleventh day, of the elev-
enth month, thousands stood together
on Whitehall, and indeed across and
outside the country, from Enniskillen
(where the IRA bombing of Remem-
brance Day 1987 lends a special sig-
niﬁcance to the event in the town) to
Toronto. A cannon ﬁred. Big Ben’s tolls
rang out throughout the precinct. Con-
versations stopped. The camera shutter
noises stopped. Everything stopped.
As silence prevailed, every single one
of these assembled peoples was united
in an intense gratitude, not just to both
living and fallen friends and family, but
to people whom they have never known
and never will know. Through war, we
have found undying love, peace, and
gratitude. Inscribed on the Cenotaph,
are the words ‘The Glorious Dead’ – I
can’t help but feel that this is a similar
story of intense juxtaposition.
The ceremony then continued
through hymn and prayer, and through
a huge procession of veterans and their
widows. I can tell you – singing our
national anthem, with Her Majesty 10
metres away, directly ahead, is some-
thing quite extraordinary. Hearing one
of the many brilliant marching bands in
attendance playing Edward Elgar’s ex-
quisite Nimrod, with so many of our ex-
ceptional armed forces surrounding us,
was also something I shall never forget.
And that is the lesson: we must never
forget. For the sake of every person that
has fought for anyone’s liberty; we must
remember and be thankful. Lest we for-
get what liberty is.
I would ask you to consider donating to
the Royal British Legion, or Help for He-
roes, both of which are registered chari-
ties which help the families of the fallen,
and support those whom have known,
and may be bodily and mentally aﬀected
for life by conﬂict; ﬁghting for our ever-
precious liberty.
Never had
silence
been so
penetrating
and so
poignant to
me
Follow us on Twitter and on Facebook!
@FelixComment | facebook.com/FelixComment
James Sean
Dickson

