SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
38
Margot Pikovsky Sports Editor
Miners Morn Medic Defeat
On Wednesday 14 November, ICSM
Ladies’ 2s faced oﬀ with the RSM
1s at their Osterley home ground.
The afternoon was glorious: the sun
overhead and no-leggings-necessary
heat a stark contrast from the last
time these two teams met back in
March, an event that will long stay
in the memory of both teams for the
truly dire conditions, including sub
zero temperatures and a torrential
downpour that started on the third
minute and prevailed until the end of
the match. With that encounter hav-
ing ﬁnished in a draw, both RSM and
Medics were keen to make this game
worth their while.
Pre-match anxiety was particularly
rife amongst the Medics this week as
it emerged that the team’s goalie had
been unable to make it for this game.
Stepping up to the task with no prior
experience of ever having played in
goal is always a big ask so the team
are particularly grateful to Maria Koo
who did just that, and made a spectac-
ular job of it whilst she was at it. Just
as Maria was kitting up in her attrac-
tive outﬁt, the RSM opponent strolled
onto the pitch and it became instantly
evident that the Medics were outnum-
bered, with RSM boasting 3 subs to
Medics’ 0. At this point, ISCM captain
Becky Ayres called the team together
for a motivational pep talk, and with
just enough time to issue a ‘Go Med-
ics!’ the game was oﬀ.
For both teams, the match took
oﬀ with an unsteady and more than
slightly halting start. Whether it was
the nerves or the fact that the afore-
mentioned sun now emerged to be a
mixed blessing and was blinding the
entire right side of the pitch (sparing
neither ICSM attack nor RSM de-
fence), it took a good 10 or so minutes
for both teams to pull themselves to-
gether and turn on the gas. Rapidly,
the game turned to the Medics’ favour
as despite several good RSM attempts
to move the ball into midﬁeld, play
ultimately revolved in the RSM goal
half and increasingly their defending
D. Becky Ayres, usually sweeper, had
bravely taken the place of the absent
Centre Midﬁelder and was playing su-
perbly in this position: her conﬁdent
and precise hits coupled with never
before witnessed speedy pitch-length
runs proving to be a challenge for
even the sturdiest of Miner defend-
ers. Of note too was Kylie Beale, re-
cently promoted from defence herself
to the rather diﬀerent role of Centre
Forward. Her dodging prowess and
ability to push the ball up alone a good
50m proved invaluable and ultimately
landed her a shot at goal, only to be
narrowly missed as the ball came oﬀ
the right post with a disappointing
ring.
Yoshi Anderson did a terriﬁc job as
Left Forward with Rosie Wilson (Left
Mid) who was able to consistently re-
sist RSM pressure and together they
would frequently confuse the oppo-
sition by bringing the ball up the far
left ﬂank. Crucially Yoshi also helped
coordinate the Medic press, ensur-
ing that most Miner shots taken from
their D were fruitless. On the occa-
sion that RSM were able to get the ball
out of their defending half, typically
thanks to the spectacular sweeps of
Gemma the ball was usually stopped
by the unfailing stick of Krishna Shah
who would swiftly send the ball back
to the Medics’ attacking D. To give
them their due, RSM were doing a
very good job of intercepting many
of these balls, and it fell to Right Mid
Rebecca Featherston (token physi-
cist on the Medic team) to win it
back for ICSM with some impressive
tackles, particularly so because she is
relatively new to the sport. With both
teams doing their fair share of run-
ning around and becoming increas-
ingly breathless as the game went on,
ICSM players completed the ﬁrst half
with a remarkable series of passes cul-
minating in Margot Pikovsky (right
forward) having a shot at goal. Always
one to mess around a little – hockey
IS a spectator sport – Margot ﬁrst in-
sisted on hitting the ball straight at the
goalie a couple of times (to be met by
an angry foot) before aiming it at the
actual goal and being rewarded by the
satisfying ‘thwock’ as it bounced oﬀ
the back board just as the umpire blew
the whistle for half time. Needless to
say, Margot did not celebrate by run-
ning up the pitch immaturely jumping
and shouting ‘Yay yay yay’.
Half time talks over and with ICSM
up a point, RSM took to the pitch
evidently determined to salvage the
game. With possession between the
teams now more or less equal, there
was a dramatic improvement in both
RSM and Medic play. ICSM defence
in particular were forced to up their
game, a challenge which they eagerly
rose to. Amy Lam and Fiona Field,
both newbies to the team this year,
played masterfully and made some
spectacular saves each. So well did
they play in fact that both almost
tied for honour of Most Valuable
Player, with Amy crowned by only a
few votes. No less critical to the back
line was Kate Richmond, ﬁlling in for
Becky Ayres as Sweeper, though by
the amount the two were running and
the strength of their play it was diﬃ-
cult to tell which of the two was play-
ing Centre Mid.
Another 35 minutes of relentless
defence from the two teams, and de-
spite a great eﬀort from the Miners,
they were unable to make a mark on
the scoreboard. Final result 1:0 to the
Medics then, with fantastic play from
both teams (I think it’s fair to say that
every single person on the pitch got
at least a good run out of the ses-
sion) and a very well deserved win for
ICSM. The Medics look forward to
playing RSM again later this season,
but for now: what more appropriate
way to celebrate a victory then ICSM
RAG Centurion later that evening?
Hockey Men’s 1s make first bid for Sliverware
Insert your own
holding sticks joke
Despite the almost blinding light from
thedyingsun,astrongstartfromICpro-
duced the ﬁrst opportunity within just a
few minutes. Graham took it perfectly,
dribbling easily into the D and dragging
the ball straight past the keeper for a
great ﬁrst goal. This, however, was short-
ly followed with a quick response from
UCL which equalised the game at 1-1.
The intensity really started to pick up
with both teams now oﬀ the mark and
battling it out for the lead and a place
in the next round of the cup. A huge
aerial from Gilles, which ﬂew right over
the UCL defence, coupled with some
impressive speed and stick skills from
Richard, gave a great opportunity which
unfortunately couldn’t be converted to
a goal, but did result in a short corner.
Soon after, IC once again took the lead
after Christoph ﬁnished oﬀ a short run,
utilising his well-practiced dribbling
skills, with a clean and powerful strike.
Just before the end of the ﬁrst half,
some solid defending and ﬂare skills
by the midﬁeld resulted in Christoph
charging down the right hand side and
delivering an amazing ball straight
across the D for Tom to ﬁnish with a text
book deﬂection, bringing the score line
to a comfortable 3-1 lead – a good start
for IC and a fair reﬂection of play.
The second half started quite slowly
with a lot of missed opportunities and
stray passes from both teams. After
quite some time and improved compo-
sure from both sides, the game picked
up again and a UCL striker somehow
managed to score an unlikely goal from
angle, despite having completely missed
theballonhisﬁrstattemptatgoal,bring-
ing the score to a less comfortable 3-2.
A nerve wracking ﬁnal twenty sec-
onds saw UCL gaining a short corner,
which fortunately was missed – giving
IC a well-deserved win and a place in the
next round of the BUCS cup.
Yes it’s a generic team picture. Yes if we had another option we
would use something fun, but we can only print what we get sent!
Anthony Vaquero Men’s 1st Captain

