SPORT
39
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Ed Hallett Triathalon Chairman
Triathalon Dominate Podium
Rolling into Essex campus the slight-
ly understrength 3rd team were pre-
pared for a bashing, things started
well with Jamie ‘destroyer’ Simpson
damaging Essex in the warm-up.
Then ﬁrst up was our foil team of
Andy Simpson, Niall Corry and Thoe
Suter. Getting us oﬀ to a great start
was old timers Thoe and Andy who
dropped only three points for the
ﬁrst 10 to imperial, and then new to
the team fresher Niall showed his
worth (and ﬂexible arm skills) in a
5-1 victory. The three musketeers
continued their ﬁne form and put
imperial into an impressive 45-14
lead.
Then team captain Loek Janssen,
new team member Pavitar Singh
and conscripted foillist Thoe stepped
onto the piste for sabre. Despite
starting well the team fell to a 30-
24 deﬁcit with just 3 bouts (to 5) to
play. However a late push from Pav
and Thoe brought imperial to within
3 points of their opponents, leaving it
to the captain to win his spurs with a
stunning (lucky) ﬁnal hit against his
Essex counterpart to win sabre 45-
44.
Finally with a strong lead and time
running out the epee team went
onto the piste to attempt to bring the
match home. Due to the absence of
a couple of epeeist, Pav and continu-
ing star of the show Thoe would pro-
vide the support to Jamie Simpson in
On what felt like the coldest morning
of the year so far, a selection of Im-
perial Triathlon members met while
it was still dark to ride oﬀ towards
Paddington, and to the ﬁrst race on
our calendar. The team was severely
dented with four members dropping
out at the last minute due to fall-
ing down stairs (valid), recurring hip
problems (valid), misjudged course-
work deadline (crap excuse) and a no
show(WTF??!). But never the less, the
ten-strong team headed out into the
darkness.
The event was at Hillingdon, a short
train journey away. The warm, spa-
cious, relaxing journey teased us into
a false sense of comfort, and as we
stepped out on to the misty platform
we hurriedly got on our bikes and
started pedalling to stop our joints
seizing in the cold.
Arriving at Hillingdon Triathlon
club, we instantly forgot the cold.
The track looked gorgeous, with its
smooth curves and ﬂawless surface,
it’s rolling course tempting us in for
a ride… still talking about the track…
but in all seriousness, it was a great
track! We had a few loops to get to
know the route, and then set up kit in
the transition area. For anyone who
doesn’t know, a duathlon consists of
a run, followed by a cycling leg, then
another run, with each change-over
occurring in the “transition zone”. Af-
ter a short warm-up, and a debate as
to how cold we’ll be in racing gear, the
start was upon us.
Oﬀ went the horn, and the front of
the pack shot oﬀ. Hendrik Frentrup,
Keesjan de Vries and Richard Mathie
all represented the club up front while
I started in the back quarter. Running
has never been my forte, but I was
kept strong minded knowing the bike
was coming, building pace and regain-
ing a few places from people who had
gone oﬀ faster at the start. I was still
in the second half of the positions,
and the front runners were long gone.
The run was only 2 miles so before I
knew it, we were on our bikes. A swift
transition and I was away. The run had
warmed me up perfectly. This was my
ﬁrst race on the new bike, and a new
experience for me spending prolonged
periods down on the aerodynamic tri-
bars I had ﬁtted to the bike. This is my
discipline, and I started to pick peo-
ple oﬀ one by one as I moved up the
pack. It’s a bizarre feeling being so low
on your bike, and just seeing the road
ahead of you rather than handlebars
and a wheel. I will admit, images from
Star Wars podracer jumped into my
head, and the theme tune rang loud
in my mind whilst swerving between
other competitors to overtake. I was
loving it!
The punishing blend of long roll-
ing ﬂats and small swerving up-hill
slugs meant my legs were beginning
to slow on the inclined sections of the
track. By transition two (bike to run)
I was knackered. I had made up a lot
of places, but I had two people hot on
my heels. Despite my best eﬀorts they
tracked me down and left me for lost
before the ﬁnish line.
We clapped in the remaining com-
petitors, and the organisers wasted no
time in preparing the podium ready to
present the winning prizes. Imperial
Triathlon had performed exceptional-
ly, with four people in the top 10, Alex
Milne with 4th place, Richard Mathie
stealing 3rd, and Jean-Claude beast-
ing in to take pole position, ﬁnishing
7 seconds ahead of second place. Sam
O’Neill, who has continued with the
club from last year, came in a notable
7th. A great result for the club, and a
start that will be hard to rival.
Next it was the women’s race. Our
team had been halved with the loss
of Sophie Kirk and Josie Bowler to
excessive workloads and a basejump-
ing attempt gone wrong. It was up to
Sarah Lewis and Harriet Nerva to do
it for the girls! Sarah launched oﬀ the
start line with plenty of gusto, despite
choosing to start at the back. She soon
clawed back the places and started the
bike leg in a strong position, and it was
here that she put herself in contention
for a podium ﬁnish. Harriet did IC
proud, and ﬂew through transition like
a pro, to begin her cycle. It must have
been a bit disheartening for her to see
the men’s team cheering her on from
behind hot mugs of coﬀee and sugar
powdered doughnuts, but we did our
best to provide the two of them with
much deserved support. Harriet pow-
ered in to 78th position (11th fastest
female), safe in the knowledge that
she did the club proud in her ﬁrst ever
race. However it was Sarah who stole
the day for the women’s race, coming
in second. She didn’t believe us when
we told her, and didn’t really take it in.
The impressive result from Sarah
was subsequently shattered by the fact
that when the Hillingdon representa-
tive called out her name to collect the
second place prize winnings, she was
nowhere to be seen. She was busy,
cuddled up in the club house with a
warm cup of tea, completely oblivi-
ous to the megaphone calling out her
name…
the ﬁnal bouts. Generally the slow-
est of the 3 weapons the lack of time
prompted some show stopping ﬁght-
ing and a 5-1 win to Jamie in just 27
Position Name Category Club Time
1 Jean-Claude Besse Male Imperial College London 39:35 mins
2 Rob Buldock Male Tri London 39.42 mins
3 Richard Mathie Male Imperial College London 40.17 mins
4 Alexander Milne Male Imperial College London 40.18 mins
1. Liza Croft Female Hemel Hempstead CC 46.14 mins
2. Sarah Lewis Female Imperial College London 47.15 mins
seconds (surely some sort of record).
Fittingly three-weapon Thoe pro-
vided the overall match winning hit
while Pav and Jamie secured a victory
with a great 45-34 win. Giving Impe-
rial a fantastic win of 135-92 in all 3
weapons and so bringing a successful
end to the 3rd teams Essex adventure.
Fencing avoid the fake tan
Sugarhut and vajazzle
not avoided
Nice shades.
Janssen Loek Fencing Men’s 3s

