“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1531 felixonline.co.uk
16/11/12
SPORT
After a slow start to the season as the
1stXV get used to a new league, their
opening cup ﬁxture against last sea-
sons opposition Kent was an ideal way
to get back to winning ways. After a
rushed warm up, and with Imperial
have to don a somewhat village play-
ing jersey to avoid a kit clash, the
game got underway. Imperial kicked
oﬀ proceedings, quickly leading to a
turn over and good possession in the
opposing 22. It didn’t take long be-
fore the ﬁrst points of the game, and
after an inch perfect pass from ﬂy-
half “Big” George Lane – who admits
himself ﬂy-half is not his natural po-
sition – Oli Benton crossed the line
for a 5-0 lead. Soon after the restart,
the pressure was back on Kent. The
ball was charged down by the face of
Jon Hardisty (some say his most use-
ful contribution to the game) result-
ing in a lineout in opposition terri-
tory. This again produced an Imperial
try, with good hands by the backline
ﬁnished oﬀ well by Nathan “Brucey”
Fitzpatrick in the corner. After the
initial burst of tries by Imperial, the
game started to get tighter. With the
exchanging of tries, Kent started to
get back into the game – due mainly
to a lack of Imperial discipline and un-
forced errors. A big blow to Imperial
came in the form of skipper Jack Fla-
nagan having to leave the ﬁeld with a
suspected broken ankle, although fans
will be relieved to here he has since
been given the all clear. A further try
from Fitzpatrick, and a penalty try
awarded for a high tackle in the act of
Jack Judd scoring, lead to an Imperial
lead of 22-12 at half time, But playing
into the wind second half Imperial
knew the game was not over. This was
quickly demonstrated as straight after
the restart Kent went over for their
third try of the game, closing the lead
to just 3 points. This pressure brought
out the best in both the senior players
Rob Kyle 1st XV Vice Captain
Rugby return to winning ways
The Aachen Annual Water Polo
Tournament is by far the most chal-
lenging encounter Imperial College’s
Water Polo team faces every year.
Historically, their performance in
this tournament has been humble, so
they arrived without the prejudice of
having to protect a reputation, which
meant everyone could let loose a little
and enjoy themselves. Furthermore,
it was a great opportunity for people
new to the sport to earn some valu-
able match experience.
The tournament started on the Sat-
urday morning, with most of the team
averaging four hours sleep on the
ﬂoor of a common room and sport-
ing a commendable hangover. It was
a slow start, with the ﬁrst match end-
ing in a less than ideal 0-7, but Impe-
rial began speeding up their counter
attacks and getting more oﬀensive,
which allowed Alex to bag a goal in
the second game, reducing Impe-
rial’s next loss to a more respectable
4-1. The last game of the day ended
in a particularly brutal 0-9 against
Aachen’s 1st team of wild beasts and
set the scene for an appropriate con-
sumption of alcohol later in the even-
ing.
The Imperial women’s team per-
formed in a similar light to the men’s,
sporting a modest 1-9 in their ﬁrst
match, with the goal executed skil-
fully by Anna, and a 7-0 in the sec-
ond. A special mention also has to go
to Philippine who saw the team was
getting so overwhelmed by German
force, she felt she had to get creative
and save a goal with her face.
The day was not without victory
however, because the men’s team
managed to earn a place at the semi-
ﬁnals in the swimming tug of war,
and the women’s team succeeded in
ﬁnishing 1st in the tournament’s beer
relay, in which a team of swimmers
sprinted 25m, got out, downed a pint,
then sprinted back. Later that night,
the Aachen water polo club hosted
a party, in which, satisfyingly, there
was a predominant attendance of the
team’s mascot – Blumenkohl the cau-
liﬂower.
On the Sunday, Imperial started
out at a disadvantage due to the goal-
keeper, Jen Wei “the ninja” Niam,
being indisposed in his eﬀorts to
recover his lost passport and avoid
imminent deportation, but they held
together strong and played with Ed-
ward in goal, yielding an 11-1 loss,
with the goal scored by Vicente. The
team’s ethos continued to hold steady
and a combination of fast drives of
strong oﬀence yielded in a further
goal from Marco against DSSC Duis-
burg and Anna against DSSC Duis-
burg (women’s).
Imperial returned to campus at
1am on Sunday night feeling ex-
tremely satisﬁed by a very rewarding
tournament, with lectures in store for
most of them on Monday morning.
Even without their coach Adam at
the tournament, both the men’s and
women’s teams performed admirably
and are now more ready than ever
to take on the other universities in
BUCS and LUSL.
Water Polo storm Germany
and newcomers to the Imperial team,
and appeared to be the turning point
of the match. Great breaks from man
of the match Rob “Coach” Kyle and
Jon Hardisty helped gain useful yards,
as the Imperial pattern started to
shine through. With Mike O’Connell
and Tom Hansen proving the cata-
lysts for forward momentum, pos-
session and territory started to show,
leading to another try for Oli Benton
and Syarif Hertog. As Kent started a
slight revival, an interception by Rob-
bie Cowan lead to a 60 metre score to
close out the game. Big hits in the ﬁ-
nal play coming from Mike Floyd and
Tom Hobson sealed the deal, resulting
in a ﬁnal score of 41-19..
Graceful like a swan.
Guy on the end:
“Loving life 2k12”
I’d let those boys scrum me, anytime.
Romylos Jackson Sports Writer

