AGRI-net symposium at Imperial
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
FRIDAY 16 NOVEMBER
Writer
Sarah Byrne
As students at Imperial, we love good
extra-curricular science, right? Right?
I guess we can be excused from crawl-
ing out of the Library once in a while
and going straight to bed as opposed
to the nearest museum. But every so
often, there are some great gems out
there to take part in, usually right on
our doorstep.
The Natural History Museum cur-
rently runs a series of 30-minute lec-
tures concerning all things bright and
beautiful, in their lecture theatre that
the Business School would be proud
of. These talks make up their pro-
gramme called Nature Live, which
oﬀers talks and events for anyone
to go to, for free. The Attenborough
Studio is situated in the modern glass
atrium of the museum and hosts these
packed introductory titbits into what
is going on behind the scenes, usually
to everyone’s complete unawareness.
Over 300 scientists work on various
endeavours throughout the museum
covering many branches of research,
and having an insight into what they
are doing, alongside learning some-
thing along the way, makes these bite-
sized sessions highly enjoyable.
Last Friday the lecture “What is
your posion… or venom?” was pre-
sented by Dr Ronald Jenner, whose
research into poisonous organisms
may hopefully lead to understanding
of their hidden potential medicinal
properties. After presenting a stimu-
lating introduction into what is a
poison and a venom and the diﬀer-
ences between the two, he went on
to explain in more detail how these
occur in nature and then onto how
this could apply to us. The lecture was
fast paced, engaging and not too over-
whelming at all to the younger mem-
bers of the audience, who posed no
end of thought-provoking questions
throughout that even at times left Dr
Jenner stumped. The science ranged
from stuﬀed models to molecules,
ensuring all of the audience, whether
a small scientist in the making, or a
visiting student learnt something new
and didn’t feel patronised or out of
their depth.
With Dr Jenner currently working
to ﬁnd the ﬁrst poisonous crustacean,
whilst looking into venom-derived
compounds to treat diabetes, such
expertise is not to go unmentioned.
These scientists know their stuﬀ, and
such lectures provide brilliant op-
portunities to talk to them unbridled
and really get to know what is going
on behind the scenes. These talks also
allow an insight into ﬁeld courses and
the research they are currently doing,
One of the biggest challenges fac-
ing today’s world is how to feed an
increasing population, particularly
with the impending threats of cli-
mate change and water shortages.
On the 1st and 2nd of November,
researchers from universities and in-
dustry nationally gathered at Imperi-
al to present their work on Chemical
Biology applications to fungal, insect
and plant sciences on the molecular
level, in the ﬁrst AGRI-net (http://
www.agri-net.net/index) Young Re-
searcher Symposium. AGRI-net is a
new collaborative network founded
by Imperial academics together with
the agrichemical industry, with sup-
port from the research councils.
The focus was on young and early-
stage researchers, particularly Ph.D
students and post-docs, and so for
some the symposium doubled as a ca-
reers event. Industry representatives
from Bayer, Syngenta and Rothamst-
ed attended, as well as delegates from
universities including Edinburgh,
Durham and Birkbeck, and the rela-
tively small size of the conference
allowed plenty of opportunities for
networking and discussions during
the poster session and over dinner.
The work presented covered a
range of approaches from computa-
tional modelling and data manage-
ment, to genetic modiﬁcation, and
problems addressed included crop
Science in London this week
What is going on closer to home...
Nature Live at the Natural History Museum
supplemented by blogs online show-
ing the research in action. It’s great
for aspiring ecologists to check out at
the moment with an online blog being
updated from a recent trip to Borneo.
Still can’t bring yourself to leave the
Library? Check online for videos of
previous talks and events if you can’t
make the trip around the corner.
However don’t be put oﬀ from at-
tending if you think it is all about the
biology. Upcoming talks include “A
Body of Evidence,” which is given by
a forensic anthropologist throughout
the day on the 23rd of November, and
“Meteorites: Messengers from Space,”
on the 28th of November, which may
be more to the taste of a physicist or
mathematician, or simply any stu-
dent who wants to feed their inner
nerd. Talks are either family friendly
or more suitable for adults, so choose
yield, sustainability, genetic modiﬁ-
cation and fungicide and pesticide
resistance.
However what all the projects had
in common was their interdiscipli-
narity – using tools from chemistry
in particular, but also mathematics,
physics, computing and engineering,
to address biological problems. This
collaborative and interdisciplinary
type of research has been increas-
ingly recognised as important in the
biomedical sciences in recent years,
not least at Imperial with its doctoral
training centres such as the Institute
for Chemical Biology, which trains
the next generation of physical scien-
tists to apply their skills to biological
problems. It is clearly emerging as a
key approach in agriculture as well,
and with AGRI-net Imperial is lead-
ing the way.
Finally, the prize for best talk was
awarded to Hannah Straker from
Durham University who presented
her research on chemical tools for
investigating multiple herbicide re-
sistance, while Imperial Ph.D student
Kerry O’Donnelly won the best post-
er prize for her innovative project to
improve the eﬃciency of the Rubisco
enzyme in photosynthesis.
wisely if you fancy taking a younger
sibling if they come to visit. These are
great events to supplement a day trip
to the museum, or if you just have an
afternoon to kill and fancy something
a lot more interesting and stimulating
than the Library Café’s cake selection.
Check online at www.nhm.ac.uk to
see the full list of upcoming Nature
Live talks. No booking is required,
just turn up!
Nature Live: Learning, but fun, and free.
May put a downer on your degree...
Philippa Skett Science Editor
Molecular Biology, or Fabric
rave photo? You decide...

