Charter New Hall of Residence?
Sir Eric Ash, Rector of Imperial College, and Stuart Upton, a Director of Stanhope Properties,
outside Furse House. After a guided tour of the Queens Gate Terrace property on Wednesday of last
week. Sir Eric stated his wish to purchase the former Ministry of Defense Hostel. This building could
house 200 students at a cost of £3 million.
Summer Hardship
One of the bodies expected to make
u significant contribution to the
forthcoming Students' Charter has
produced plans for universities to
opt out of current funding systems.
The Adam Smith Institute, one of
the most influential right wing think
tanks, will next month call for
universities to receive central
government funding based on
student numbers. If this plan were
to be implemented, universities
would be following the example set
by grant maintained schools.
The proposals are being seriously
considered in educational circles.
The Adam Smith Institute
established itself as a consistent
setter of government policy during
the Thatcher years. It played a
major role in drawing up the recent
health service and secondary school
reforms, and was behind the
introduction of the student loan
scheme.
Madsen Pirie, director of the
Adam Smith Institute, said that the
opt out plans were a logical
development of existing
management systems. In the Times
Higher Educational Supplement he
said that 'universities have the local
financial management but do not
have the freedom of grant
maintained schools. Funding them
on a per capita basis per student
would make the decisions made by
individual students the key
determinant rather than the
decisions of a central democracy.'
Speaking to (CNN late last night,
Mr Angus Fraser, Imperial College
Managing Director, said that 'the
implications of these plans need to
be very carefully looked into. We
would be concerned about the
implications for a steady state
college, as opposed to a rapid
growth college.'
A 24 hour duty press officer from
the Department for Education
refused to comment, asking 'why
didn't you call during office hours?'
The National Union of Students
(NUS) is planning a series of
summer campaigns on student
hardship. Next Wednesday, the
North West region of the NUS will
be lobbying the House of
Commons, with a speaker meeting
afterwards addressed by university
and polytechnic vice chancellors.
The meeting will also be
addressed by the President-elect of
the NUS, Lorna Fitzsimons, who
warned this week that 'another
summer of hardship would be
unavoidable'. In the Times Higher
Education Supplement, Ms
Fitzsimons writes that she will be
urging the new higher education
minister, Nigel Forman, 'to publish
swiftly the findings of the Select
Committee on Education, Science
and Arts enquiry into student
hardship.' This report was due to
be published before Easter, but this
timetable was upset by the General
Election campaign.
The committee made its only visit
to an educational establishment
when it called at Imperial College
on the 15 January. Members of the
committee met the Rector, Heads of
Departments and Student Union
representatives. At the time, Zoe
Hellinger, Union President, said
that she thought the committee was
'coming to the wrong college', as
she did not regard Imperial College
as representative of the higher
education system. Evidence was
also taken from the National
Association of Citizens' Advice
Bureaux and from the National
Union of Students. The
Conservative Students' chairman,
Rob Marvin, has already held a
private 'constituency' meeting with
the new minister.

