FELIX
10
POLITICS politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 03 june 2011
Ratko Mladić arrested
A couple of weeks ago, Osama bin Laden
was found and killed in Pakistan by the US.
As is usually the case, a lot of banter and ridi-
cule followed – one of which was a picture
of Osama Bin Laden titled ‘Hide and Seek
Champion: 2001– 2011’. I remember thinking
that he wasn’t the champion, there were still
many war criminals and the like at large such
as Ratko Mladić – the man who masterminded
the genocide in Srebrenica and presented it as a
‘gift’ to the Serbian nation. I wondered wheth-
er he’d ever be caught.
Last week, as some of you might know, Rat-
ko Mladić was indeed arrested in Serbia. The
head of the Yugoslavian National Army (JNA)
and the one who executed Karadžić’s vision
verbatim all over Bosnia, has been – as an
unbelievable amount of westerners like to elo-
quently say – ﬁnally brought to justice. I don’t
quite agree and I’d like to share my reasoning
with you.
Just like Slobodan Milošević and Radovan
Karadžić, Mladić will be taken to the Hague
and put on trial for his war crimes, prominent-
ly displayed in front of the western public and
that is about as much as the West can do. Quite
frankly, it is not enough. I don’t want to sound
too contemptuous when I say all of this, but
a trial in the Hague is deﬁnitely not what the
deﬁnition of justice is. Prisoners in the Hague
are more comfortable than you and I have ever
been – the Detention Unit is described as “the
Hague Hilton”, and anyone can watch a video
tour of how luxuriously war criminals have it
there. Moreover, the running cost of all of the
trials of former-Yugoslavian war criminals is
about $1.2 billion (estimated back in 2008).
Money that could have been better spent in
helping the victims and their families some-
what recover. Don’t get me wrong – no money
could ever make up for the damage that has
been done, the lives that have been lost, the
suffering my people have endured since 1992,
but it would help.
To put it in plain language, justice cannot be
satisﬁed in this case. Not ever. And that is the
painful truth we have to learn to accept. You
cannot bring back the dead, you cannot undo
murders, rapes, unspeakable torture and the
horrors the West Balkan people have survived
in concentration camps. Justice most certainly
will never be satisﬁed for the genocide survi-
vors of Srebrenica. It will not bring back the
massacred children of Bosnia and Herzegov-
ina.
However, his capture is a good thing. Some-
what comforting news and a lot of us will sigh
with relief tonight.
I also happen to have an exam tomorrow –
just a few hours away from writing this, but I
honestly do not care. I’ve wasted enough time
going over online articles. Most of the foreign
reactions are, unsurprisingly, quite naïve in
parts, too optimistic and they sound like clue-
less happy-ending-believers.
Last term I wrote an article about Lilly Eb-
ert, a holocaust survivor, and the events that
life put on her shoulders. She might not have
known that in the audience, there was a Ger-
man student, sitting and listening to her every
word. It was he who later asked her a question
– one I found was unbelievably insightful:
“Have you gone back to Germany or shared
your story with the German youth? How did
they react?” It was the one question Mrs. Ebert
seemed startled to have been asked. She did
not smile, but replied nevertheless:
“I have not gone back to Germany and would
not talk to Germans of my age. I’d wonder
what they had been doing during the war and
whether they submitted to the general murder-
ous convention that Hitler preached. I wouldn’t
like to meet people of my own age, and I’d feel
uneasy meeting the German youth of today
– I’d wonder what their parents did and with
what ideologies they have been brought up”.
That is quite understandable. Time could
never erase the horrors she had been through.
I wonder whether there are enough Serbians
out there who would listen to what a Bosnian
concentration camp survivor has to say. Hitler
and his chief war architects shot themselves
and later the Nuremberg trials were carried
out, their signiﬁcance being substantially
more important as they were held on German
territory. Justice was brought to the heart of
Germany and spread via Nuremberg through-
out the country we today admire. Distance
dwindles the seriousness of monstrous deeds,
and to put that in today’s perspective: the
Hague might be a good idea, but it deﬁnitely
is not the best one. Democracy can only come
from within the country itself, remorse and
shame can only be felt throughout the Serbian
nation once the crimes that have been com-
mitted are recognised and categorically con-
victed by their leaders. No reconciliation can
be achieved in that area until the ones who
have committed these atrocities come forward
with their repentance. Boris Tadić (Serbia’s
current President) is not the one to ask for
forgiveness; Karadžić, Mladić, Milošević and
the like are. His words will not be listened to
by the chetniks (četnici) who rallied for Ratko
Mladić just half an hour away from Saraje-
vo. Support has been prominently displayed
all over Youtube videos and Facebook pages
for Mladić just hours after his arrest was
conﬁrmed. All of these featured promises of
a new war in the Balkans and prophecies of
the ‘next Mladić’. My whole body twitches
at the thought of this. I can still see, written
in capital letters: RATKO MLADIĆ, SRPSKI
HEROJ (Ratko Mladić, Serbian hero). Tadić’s
words will be considered a betrayal to the true
Serbian blood and this is what was chanted
by the chetniks. He is a start though – I just
hope he doesn’t get overpowered and crushed
eventually.
Wikileaks recently released documents that
said that the Serbian government knew where
Ratko Mladić was up to 2009. They released
documents with tips on his whereabouts which
were sent by the US ofﬁcials to Belgrade and
were completely ignored. Now it seems he’ll
receive the best medical care the world has to
offer, which might postpone his death for a
year or two, but I highly doubt we’ll see him
convicted. A déjà-vu from Milošević’s case.
There indeed is no justice in the world, only
our attempts at evening out the consequences.
Finally, there is a common link between
the Balkan radicals (the Balije, Ustaše and
Četnici): they are (mostly) uneducated, village
folk who are brought up in communities which
have been concentrated in small areas, ma-
nipulated by religious and political leaders into
believing that serving them is ‘serving God’s
will’. They believe that they are a chosen na-
tion and are brainwashed from their cradles by
a neo-nazi-like ideology. You also get the other
extreme: I for one ﬁnd it startling that Radovan
Karadžić was educated at Columbia Univer-
sity, New York (an Ivy League school, yes).
Still, the most alarming thing about the rallies
in Mladić’s name was that there were many
children and youth standing side-by-side with
their grandparents, Serbian ﬂags in some hands
and Mladić’s portraits in others. It sickens me
that this is today’s reality.
There is hope for the future nevertheless.
Last year, after the refusal of the Serbian Gov-
ernment to put forward a document acknowl-
edging Serbia’s involvement in the war in
Bosnia and that there had been a genocide in
Srebrenica just a decade ago, 20 young Serbi-
an members of the Youth Initiative for Human
Rights spray-painted across the Assembly’s
entrance: Тa тешкa страна рец ‘геноцид’ (that
tough foreign word ‘genocide’). Kudos to you
my friends.
Naida Dzigal
The world beyond
College walls
Germany
Indonesian officials have rebuffed claims of animal
cruelty after Australia halted exports to some facili-
ties. This follows an Australian TV documentary that
shows animals being flogged, kicked and slashed
with knives. An Indonesian official has said that the
documentary wasn’t reflective and only focused on
the bad abattoirs, adding that Indonesia is commit-
ted to producing meat that is safe, secure, healthy
and halal. Some Australian MPs have called for a
complete ban on cattle exports to Indonesia after
the airing of the documentary on grounds of animal
cruelty.
Indonesia
Germany’s coali-
tion government
has announced
it will close all
nuclear power
plants by 2022.
Last September
Chancellor An-
gela Merkel had
reversed the pre-
vious government’s plan to close plants by 2021,
and instead chose to extend their lives by a further
7 years. However, this sudden U-turn came about
as the centre-right coalition dipped in popularity and
fears grew over nuclear power following the Japanese
earthquake.
Sudan
North and South Sudan have agreed to set up a
jointly patrolled demilitarised zone on their com-
mon border in a deal mediated by the African Union.
This comes after the North seized the troubled re-
gion of Abyei 10 days ago. Abyei is claimed by both
the nomadic Arab Miseriya tribe and the Dinka Ngok
and is a source of contention between the North
and the South after a planned referendum was post-
poned indefinitely. The proposed demilitarised zone
will stretch along the entire 2110km border and will
have a depth of up
to 10km. However,
it is not clear if it
will be 10km in
total or 10km on
each side of the
border.
Caught after 16 years of hiding
But he’ll never face true justice at the Hague
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
Joseph Letts
Rajat Jain
Edited by Kenneth Lee
“You cannot undo the
horrors the West Balkan
people have survived in
concentration camps”

