FELIX
12
COM M ENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 03 june 2011
W
atching interviews
from the 60s and
70s, is an odd expe-
rience. I saw some
with John Lennon
on YouTube the other day, in which he
wasn’t being a grinning media-trained
robot. He was joking about, with his
style of surrealist humour, and gener-
ally being relaxed. If someone did that
now, there would be stories all over the
place saying they gave an ‘erratic’ in-
terview. Watch several interviews and
you realise he was doing something that
nowadays seems far too terrifying to us
– he was being himself.
An interviewee being honest amazed
me. I actually got a sense of what the
man was like in real life, not a feeling
I usually get when watching most in-
terviews, with a few exceptions. I get a
feeling that the subject becomes a cari-
cature of themselves.
So, have you ever watched a video
of an interview? You have? Good, that
will make it all a bit easier. There’s
something you may have noticed when
watching; the interviewee rarely actu-
ally answers the question, unless it’s an
extremely irreverent question. If it’s a
politician then you get the sense that the
mere thought of giving a direct answer
makes them sweat harder than an Impe-
rial head of Faculty hooked up to a lie
detector. So they waffle for a bit, until
you forget what the question even was.
A politician’s answer is a good name
for this phenomenon, as politicians
manage to do it with frightening ease.
That would be fine, but now everyone is
getting in on the act. It may have started
with politicians, but everyone seems to
have decided to start doing it.
As you know, politicians are so ad-
mired that others want to use their
secrets to gain some of their popular-
ity. So from politicians to pop stars to
footballers, nobody is willing to give a
useful interview as they don’t want to
alienate anyone.
I think the best way to describe this is
with an example. I’m sure you’ll recog-
nise an exchange like this:
Interviewer: What’s your favourite
band?
Interviewee: Well, that’s an interesting
question. I really love music. I think it’s
hard to say exactly which band is my
favourite, as I have so many. I mean,
what’s really important is to remember
…(5 minutes later)… So as I said I have
a lot of bands that I like, and it’s impos-
sible to pick a favourite.
Instead of what should have happened,
which is this:
Interviewer: What is your favourite
band?
Interviewee: The Beatles.
An actual answer to the question, and
a rather fantastic answer if you ask me.
A big part of it is that people are
afraid of offending someone, or saying
something that someone doesn’t like.
Frankly, I’m tired of it. It means that
interviews are just becoming pointless.
The interview should instead be writ-
ten in big capital letters saying: THIS
PERSON IS A VERY NICE MAN
AND LOVES YOU ALL. PLEASE
LIKE HIM.
I’m also blaming the media. They
take the approach that Silvio Berlus-
coni takes to women; they are ready to
pounce on anything, leading to every-
one having some form of media coach-
ing. This training seems to consist of: 1.
Grinning like they are trying to win first
Get an opinion
place in a ‘grin like an irritating moron’
contest and 2. Never actually giving any
opinions, just generic words of praise
for everyone.
The people who conduct the inter-
views are also to blame, especially on
political subjects. They have become so
argumentative and angry that it’s not a
surprise that people don’t say anything
of any merit. They know the second
they give an opinion they will be de-
stroyed by the media.
That’s politicians and the media, but
the blame can be spread even more.
Back in the day people would disagree
with what others say. But no one would
know about it. Now, with the internet,
everyone is a critic with a loud enough
voice to be heard, which people in the
spotlight have interpreted as meaning
they can’t say anything for fear of of-
fending people. I think everyone needs
to just remember that sometimes people
say stuff that they don’t like, and that is
not the worst thing in the world. If you
don’t like The Beatles that’s fine – al-
though I wonder how you managed to
read this copy of Felix as you must have
had a lobotomy.
Worrying about offending people makes celebrities bland
Tim Arbabzadah
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
“
g
”
Everyone needs to remember
that sometimes people say
stuff that they don’t like
FELIX
Everyone needs to take a leaf out of this guy’s book
Imperial College London does not train its
students to paint. It does not teach its stu-
dents the philosophical differences between
Hegel and Nietzsche. In fact it doesn’t teach
anything except science, engineering, and
medicine – the Business School aside. These
things will not be revelations to any of you, we
would hope, but the reason for stating them
so plainly is to demonstrate the perversity of
the following sentence. Imperial College Lon-
don no longer supports the UK’s most high-
profile science lobby group, the Campaign for
Science and Engineering (CaSE).
Our institution, the only solely science-
focussed university in the country, has de-
cided that our affiliation with CaSE no lon-
ger “adds value to the College’s activities”.
We think that this is nonsense and that
Imperial has a duty to support the science
community in the UK; a community in which
CaSE is a influential and valued member.
Let’s first consider the cost of our affili-
ation: £3,000 according to some reports.
(CaSE declined to confirm this figure but
said, “it wasn’t far off.”) Last year Imperial re-
ported a surplus (or profit, in everyday terms)
of £41.3 million. It should be patently clear
that our subscription to CaSE was not break-
ing the bank. Imperial can easily afford it.
But we should not simply be wasting mon-
ey, no matter how small the sum. Some kind
of cost-benefit analysis is in order. So is it
worth spending around £3,000 per year
to support CaSE. The lobbying and cam-
paigning of CaSE arguably influenced two
extremely important government decisions
this year. Research funding got off compara-
tively lightly during the government’s round
of spending cuts and important concessions
to scientists were made in the government’s
immigration strategy. The financial benefit
to Imperial of these successes is difficult to
calculate, but the idea that in helping to pro-
tect Imperial from harsher government cuts
that CaSE has not added value to the Col-
lege’s activities is laughable.
Obviously Imperial will benefit from CaSE’s
lobbying efforts regardless of whether we
support them financially or not. But CaSE
increasingly speaks for the community that
Imperial is supposed to be at the heart of.
Read reports about the debate over sci-
ence funding and it is obvious that Imran
Khan, the Director of CaSE and an Imperial
alumnus, is an extremely effective spokes-
person for the science community. Impe-
rial’s decision suggests that we don’t value
CaSE’s efforts; it suggests that we don’t
support its campaigns; and it suggests
that the most coherent and influential voice
in support of scientific research in the UK
doesn’t speak for Imperial College London.
This decision is frankly embarrassing and
should be reversed immediately.
CaSE decision
embarrasses Imperial

