FELIX
14
Poem for the week
A R T S
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 03 june 2011
Horses on the Camargue
by Roy Campbell
Roy Campbell was an
Anglo-South African
poet who lived from
1901 to 1957. He was
called the foremost
African poet of his
generation and was
known for his outspo-
ken condemnation of
Freudianism and Marx-
ism, both of which
were fashionable at
the time.
When I eventually managed to walk through
the doors of the Olivier Theatre, blocked up
with crowds, I turned my head to the stage and
that enchanting stage setting took me to the be-
ginning of the twentieth century straightaway.
I could see a living room with wooden walls
cosily enlightened with candles, and a grand
bookcase and sofas. As a history lover, I re-
alised that I picked the right play to watch on
my Bank Holiday weekend.
In 1904, the Russian dramatist and play-
wright Anton Chekov’s ‘The Cherry Orchard’
was performed for the first time shortly before
his death. It was great to be able to watch this
remarkable story with the main character, Ma-
dame Ranyevskaya, portrayed so ably by the
well-known actress Zoë Wanamaker CBE. I
am sure you are all familiar with the cheer-
ful face of Wanamaker from her famous roles,
think Madame Hooch in Harry Potter and the
control freak mother Susan Harper in the Brit-
ish sitcom My Family.
So, the plot of ‘The Cherry Orchard’ takes
place just before the Russian Revolution of
1917. The story starts when Madame Ranyevs-
kaya returns bankrupt back to Russia with her
daughter Anya, after spending ten extravagant
years abroad.
She is the landowner of a beautiful ancestral
property includ a house and the large cherry
orchard in which the heroine grew up. How-
ever, as Ranyevskaya settles down to enjoy
her nostalgic idyll, a merchant called Lopak-
hin, played by Conleth Hill, arrives to buy the
orchard from under her and trash the orchard
with new expensive holiday homes. Ranyevs-
kaya, too engrossed in her heavenly home, ig-
nores Lopakhin’s evil scheme and fails to stop
Lophakin and other hostile forces from buy-
ing it and forcing her away from the beloved
place.
Yet again, another role brilliantly performed
by Zoë Wanamaker. She is truly amazing in
engaging with her role and you can see that
she feels every moment of the story, which
becomes very important in allowing the au-
dience to experience the story as if they were
a part of it. The time period is mirrored very
well with the aid of enthralling costumes and
decorations. Despite the sadness of the story,
the play is not lacking in moments of laughter
throughout. If you are looking for an evening
well-spent, ‘The Cherry Orchard’ is strongly
recommended.
National Theatre until August, £12
Cherries ripe for watching
Zoë Wanamaker makes Chekov’s classic play at the
National Theatre the pick of the crop
Million Dollar Quartet
Zeki Ilkan
In the grey wastes of dread,
The haunt of shattered gulls where nothing moves
But in a shroud of silence like the dead,
I heard a sudden harmony of hooves,
And, turning, saw afar
A hundred snowy horses unconfined,
The silver runaways of Neptune’s car
Racing, spray-curled, like waves before the wind.
Sons of the Mistral, fleet
As him with whose strong gusts they love to flee,
Who shod the flying thunders on their feet
And plumed them with the snortings of the sea;
Theirs is no earthly breed
Who only haunts the verges of the earth
And only on the sea’s salt herbage feed-
Surely the great white breakers gave them birth.
For when for years a slave,
A horse of the Camargue, in alien lands,
Should catch some far-off fragrance of the wave
Carried far inland from this native sands,
Many have told the tale
Of how in fury, foaming at the rein,
He hurls his rider; and with lifted tail,
With coal-red eyes and catarcating mane,
Heading his course for home,
Though sixty foreign leagues before him sweep,
Will never rest until he breathes the foam
And hears the native thunder of the deep.
And when the great gusts rise
And lash their anger on these arid coasts,
When the scared gulls career with mournful cries
And whirl across the waste like driven ghosts;
When hail and fire converge,
The only souls to which they strike no pain
Are the white crested fillies of the surge
And the white horses of the windy plain.
Then in their strength and pride
The stallions of the wilderness rejoice;
They feel their Master’s trident in their side,
And high and shrill they answer to his voice.
With white tails smoking free,
Long streaming manes, and arching necks, they
show
Their kinship to their sisters of the sea-
And forward hurl their thunderbolts of snow.
Still out of hardship bred,
Spirits of power and beauty and delight
Have ever on such frugal pasture fed
And loved to course with tempests through the
night.
The experience of watching my first London
musical, ‘Million Dollar Quartet’ at the Noël
Coward Theatre left me amused, amazed but
also slightly disappointed. The theatre en-
trance was filled with anxious people when we
arrived and the air crackled with anticipation.
Inside we were greeted by music from the fif-
ties whilst waiting for curtain-up. The simple
scenery was just a single room: the recording
studio in which unfolded the legendary meet-
ing of the four most renowned musicians of
the fifties; Jonny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl
Perkins, and of course The King, Elvis. The
story was too bland for my taste as it was the
reincarnation of a recording session that had
happened by chance in the Sun Studio, run by
Samuel Phillips, the man who had “discov-
ered” the four artists.
The storyline was insubstantial, just revolv-
ing around Philips’ agenda of persuading the
musicians not to leave his studio, as they were
individually threatening to do.
The musical was very enjoyable in general
despite the story, as the musicians were phe-
nomenal. Ben Goddard, who played Jerry Lee
Lewis, was an especially outstanding pianist
and capable singer, and highly gifted in captur-
ing the spirit of the young aspiring hillbilly boy
Lewis. The other actors gave solid performanc-
es although the least capturing character was
Elvis, played by Michael Malarki, who gave a
great musical performance but sadly failed to
capture the iconic spirit of Elvis. On stage El-
vis had a very distinctive way of moving and
behaving, a way that banned TV channels from
showing him from the waist down when broad-
casting his concerts, and that made women go
wild in his presence. Malarki did not show
this unbelievable charisma and stage presence,
which for me is what Elvis was all about.
All in all the performance was amusing; worth
seeing if you are a fan of music from the fifties.
It was dynamic, fast, fun and lightly digested.
Noel Coward theatre, from £10
Taiba Suddek
Catherine Ashmore
Helen Maybanks
No Zoë Wanamaker, no more dancing!
Fast and fun, but this musical is a tad light on plot
“The musical was
enjoyable in general,
despite the story”

