FELIX Friday 03 june 2011 15
ARTS
So often in the media you hear directors
and people of the arts talking of their
desire to ‘transport’ the reader or viewer
or listener, whatever it might be, away
from their mundane reality. Whether the
destination is Richmond, Rio or Ancient
Rome, all too often you can find your-
self back in that reality in a matter of
seconds. As I walked out of Mad Blud, I
could not say the same, but not entirely
due to the play itself.
Mad Blud is an exploration of Lon-
don knife crime, the brainchild of Philip
Osment. The piece brings together
interviews with victims, perpetrators
and a wide range of those involved in
between, all brought to life by actors
through ‘verbatim theatre’ – they learn
no script but rather hear the words re-
cited through headphones. As the lights
went down, my eyebrows were raised,
but I was soon too involved to waste en-
ergy on looking skeptical.
The style brought with it a freshness
and an air of credibility, although at
times the cast seemed to lack the full
emotion that their words appeared to cry
out for. Nevertheless, the stories retain
the mark of the real characters, as they
are handled with a delicacy that delivers
the message with a real punch (no pun
intended). Mad Blud’s strength comes
in it being so far from the portrayal of
knife-crime that gets trolleyed out by
the press. Without showering you in
numbers, it educates through personal
accounts. It gives humanity to the sta-
tistics, a feat that I cannot laud enough.
Through the reformed gang member,
the grieving mother, the church commu-
nity discussing the decay of society, the
audience is given glimpses into several
cases, each with their own colour and
personality.
Mad Blud made for an informative
and engaging production but it was
the Q&A session at the end that really
transformed the experience for me. As
is always the case with these things, the
ball is pretty slow to get rolling and only
started with a few ostensibly seasoned
theatre types pointing out a few tech-
nical points they enjoyed. I’ll confess,
even I mentally ruminated on what I
might say if picked on. What I hadn’t
banked on was the person sitting be-
hind me commenting that they particu-
larly appreciated the portrayal of Jamal,
I think seeing Mad Blud a few days
before Anya Reiss’ new play at the
Royal Court stood me in good stead.
Who knows what sharp edged trouble I
might have unwittingly meandered into
on the walk from South Ken to Sloane
Square? That said, any potential cross-
fire that was avoided on the journey
down, was certainly not in the hour and
a half that followed.
The Acid Test, Reiss’ second play,
invites us into the front room of three
twenty-something girls on the night
that their swirling maelstrom of lady
issues is interrupted by the arrival
of one of their fathers, evicted by his
missus and her new beau, the roofer.
Dana, a flirty blonde, is toying with the
idea of sleeping with her boss, purely
for professional progress and deterred
seemingly only by his gingerness; the
shrill and somewhat ditsy Ruth returns
fresh from being dumped by her arty
boyfriend; and Jess, daughter of Jim,
appears more stressed by her father’s
presence than anything else. Open the
drinks cupboard and a lot of heart-to-
hearts, DMCs and soul baring ensues.
The play does well in the breadth of
issues it touches upon, even if a few
sound as though they’re straight off
the MiddleClassProblem twitter feed
(which also comes highly recommend-
ed). It portrays to a T the frictions of
parent-child relationships and the end-
less supply of embarrassment the for-
mer always bring when visiting their
offspring – never again will I listen to
Marvin Gaye’s ‘Let’s Get It On’ with-
out thinking of Denis Lawson, cast as
Jim, grooving on down after a few neat
vodkas.
But such can surely be expected from
a playwright aged 19 (I refuse to go
into more detail, the thought of such
precocious success doesn’t help the re-
vision go down.) Self-worth, married
life, sexual desire and sometimes sex-
ual ambivalence all come under Reiss’
magnifying glass and whilst the style is
fast paced, fluid and very satisfying, the
substance is a little thin. The comedy is
rich, written scientifically, and the de-
nouement draws to a tidy finish, not be-
fore a few twists. In all, she reminds me
slightly of Chelsea’s own local football
team – technically very good, just short
of a little magic and not quite hitting the
target as was the case a few years ago.
The production in general has a vital-
ity, no doubt due in part to the lively
performances from Vanessa Kirby and
Phoebe Fox, the latter’s talent belied by
her single line of past theatrical work.
Dennis Lawson gives weight to the cast
and galvanizes the comedy opposite the
seemingly effortlessly sour-faced Lydia
Wilson, who brings the same ice to the
role as she displayed in The Heretic.
The intimacy of the studio, effectively
the Royal Court’s attic, is exploited
to the full, rather than take down the
fourth wall, they let the audience sit on
and around it.
The Acid Test is a very tight work
that mixes two parts home truths to one
part comedy and tops it up with sheer
energy and watch-ability. Serve with
Dennis Lawson and promising trio of
young talent and can’t you go wrong.
I, for one, am keen to see what Reiss
offers up next.
who was stabbed in a playground in
Walthamstow several years ago, as they
went to school with him currently. My
jaw dropped. Theatre can widen your
empathy to knife-crime, but I’d never
anticipated to be looking into the eyes
of a girl visibly younger than myself
who knew first-hand the subject of the
play I’d just watched. She looked naïve
and unworried and yet she was living
with the grisly issue this entire project
was attempting tackle. And she wasn’t
alone, other friends, community sup-
port workers and prison officers came
forward and shared their opinions, even
adding real detail to the stories I’d just
been told.
I realize this is likely to be unique to
my experience, even if it wasn’t; I’ve
lessened the surprise somewhat. But
it was built on the revealing insight of
Mad Blud and I cannot stress enough
the degree to which I admire project
such as this. Topics like knife-crime are
impossible to pin down, which makes
its accomplishments all more impres-
sive. This theatre isn’t perfect, but its
intentions are more than noble.
Mad Blud has ended
Mad Blud does good
Exploring London knife crime on stage
The Acid Test makes the grade
A ‘girly night in’ makes for a great night out
Will Prince
Will Prince
Fred Durst: The Musical, the only thing worse than the Spiderman musical
Jane Hobson
Manuel Harlan
Crying on a sofa with a bottle of vodka? Oh to be 12 again

