FELIX
18
MUSIC
Friday 03 JUNE 2011
Stephen Smith
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Belle & Sebastian
Write About Love
Rough Trade
2010
It was released in October, but a trio of London gigs
over the Bank Holiday weekend have rekindled local
interest in this album. I have no hesitation in claiming
that it is by far their worst album to date, though that
has been said by most reviewers of every Belle &
Sebastian album since 1996. The album is distinctly
less melancholy than their previous releases, and
features lyrics which at first seem vastly oversimple
(“Write about love, it can be in any tense but it must
make sense” rhymes just for the sake of it), but over
time the album starts to take its place in their musi-
cal history. Write About Love sounds like the emer-
gence from a dark 14-year-long tunnel of musical
exploration. B&S have sung about the complexities
of love, life and everything in between, and now they
are coming to a retrospective conclusion that life is
profoundly simple. This album, like Hemingway’s The
Old Man and the Sea, is an example of an intelligent
artist using simplicity to great effect. Harry Rickerby
Most
listened to
this week by
Felix Music
members
on last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Anaïs Mitchell
Bush Hall, Shepherd’s Bush
Saturday, 4th June 2011
If you think the idea of a folk opera based on a mod-
ern interpretation of the Greek myth of Orpheus and
Eurydice sounds pretentious, then you’d be right;
but it turns out that Anaïs Mitchell has written pre-
cisely that opera in a completely unpretentious way.
A recording featuring American folk giants Justin
Vernon (of Bon Iver fame), Ani DiFranco and Greg
Brown, Hadestown is pure perfection from start to
finish. The opera itself was performed in Islington
in January, but for those of us who weren’t lucky
enough to get tickets in time Anaïs is playing a solo
gig in Shepherd’s Bush this weekend. Sure to fea-
ture several songs from the opera, and more from
her excellent back catalogue, it promises to be a
fantastic night. Stephen Smith
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. Daft Punk
2. Radiohead
3. Bon Iver
4. Arcade Fire
5. Muse
6. The Beatles
7. RHCP
8. The Strokes
9. Crystal Castles
10. Foo Fighters
www.anaismitchell.com
I
have been trying to pin down what is
truly appealing about festivals. What
makes them so hellishly fun and why do
we go to them? Of course there can’t be
just one answer. Part of the fun is get-
ting away from ‘civilisation’ and going a bit
mad for a few days; but after a while you can’t
help but begrudgingly admit that civilisation,
with its comfortable beds, warm showers, and
clean clothes is actually pretty sweet. Obvious-
ly part of the fun is being with your mates; but
it’s probably not necessary to point out that we
don’t just see our mates once a year at Bestival.
What really makes a festival worth going to, in
my opinion, is the line-up. It’s the opportunity
to see a whole load of the bands that you love
one after another (as well as hopefully being
pleasantly surprised by those that you haven’t
heard of yet.)
Which is why a big smile came across my
face when I saw the line-up for Field Day. It
reads like a who’s who of the alternative music
scene in London. My eyes initially darted to
the names Jamie xx, James Blake, and Mount
Kimbie. But as well as the leading lights of the
movement that should or shouldn’t be labelled
‘post-dubstep’, I also saw some of the better
indie bands around today, like Wild Beasts,
Ducktails, and The Horrors.
Even if that were all there was in one day, this
would be a festival worth going to. But then
throw into the mix Kieran Hebden (of Four Tet
fame) going deck to deck with James Holden.
And then Matthew Dear to get some funky
grooves flowing. On top of that, a personal
favourite of mine is also on the line-up: Star
Field of Dreams
If this was the NME, I would start this article
with a sentence like “Rodrigo Braga sounds
like the illegitimate lovechild of Stevie Won-
der and Paul Simon backed by a Samba
band,” but it’s not, so I won’t. Rodrigo Braga
is an excellent singer, guitarist and songwriter
who performs meaningful and intelligent mu-
sic which, if approached from a genre perspec-
tive, could plausibly be described as a fusion
of American and Brazilian folk music. Now
that’s proper music journalism.
Rodrigo’s music is complex, sophisticated,
surprising and subtly jazz-influenced. On songs
like Drumbeatz (which can be found on You-
tube), you can hear the professionalism and mu-
sicianship leaking through your speakers, while
Apollo 18, a song about rejection of modern
culture, leaves the listener drenched in wit.
All this leaves me wondering why Braga is
not hundreds of times more popular than he is.
At a recent gig at Earl’s Court’s The Trouba-
dour, he performed a show-stopping set of fan-
tastic songs which would have had the entire
audience dancing had they not got the entire
audience thinking first. The distinctly medio-
cre pop-rock of Braga’s support, Feldspar,
only highlighted how much of a gem he is
amongst a sea of dull musicians.
Braga’s debut, Between The Waves, is free
to stream at www.rodrigobraga.co.uk
Kadhim Shubber continues the Felix Summer Festival
Guide with a preview of East London’s Field Day
Dates: 6th August 2011
Location: Victoria Park, London E3
Price: £39.50
Website: www.fielddayfestivals.com
Slinger. Oh and also Factory Floor. Oh and…
Ok I won’t go on ad nauseam. But as well
as the amazing line-up, if we roll back through
the reasons why festivals are fun, Field Day’s
format actually makes it almost perfect. Since
it’s a one-day festival, in Victoria Park in East
London, it’s easy to get to. So actually you can
arrange to go to it with those mates that maybe
you don’t see as much as you should – the tick-
ets are reasonably priced at £39.50. And while
you do get to get away from civilization and
romp around a park for a day, at the end of it all
you can, if you want to, hop on a bus and sleep
in a comfortable bed. A whole day packed with
amazing artists and I don’t have to stand knee-
deep in mud to brush my teeth in the morning;
sounds perfect to me.
There are probably more user-friendly
eye patches out there...
Rodrigo Braga: Imperial’s own Stevie Wonder
“You can hear the
professionalism and
musicianship leaking
through your speakers”
New Age fun with a vintage feel
Kadhim Shubber

