Unfortunately Felix will have to stop
publishing at some point, and the end of
the academic year seems as good a time
as any. (The suggestion of printing a daily
throughout July and August didn’t go down
well with the sub editors.) Our last issue
is on Friday the 17th of June and from
then on you’ll have to resign yourselves
to reading ‘real’ newspapers *shudders.
Never fear though, we’ll still be online at
felixonline.co.uk and
facebook.com/feliximperial and we’ll be
back in October!
FELIX
2
HIGHLIGHTS
Friday 03 june 2011
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
On campus
Does god play dice?
Dr Antony Valentini
fearlessly challenges
one of the central tenets
of quantum mechanics
in this lecture. Arguing
that time is universal
and not relative, he
suggests that quantum
uncertainty is not
fundamental. Open to
all. £3 for staff and
students. Visit bit.ly/
mq4bwm to buy tickets.
Energy: Perspectives
from an MEP
Imperial alumnus and member of the European
Parliament Maria da Graça Carvalho delivers a
guest lecture about her work in the area of energy,
including working with developing countries. Open
to all with advance registration required. Contact
c.doran@imperial.ac.uk for further information.
G34, Sir Alexander Fleming Building
13 June 12:00–13:00
G16, Sir Alexander Fleming Building
09 June 19:00–20:00
HIV decline in Zimbabwe
In the wake of one of the most severe epidemics in
recent times, Professor Simon Gregson investigates
the factors behind the drop in HIV infection rates
across Zimbabwe as well as discussing the role played
by Imperial researchers in helping to understand
the trends behind such an event. Open to all with
registration required in advance. Email k.weeks@
imperial.ac.uk for more information.
Clore Lecture Theatre, Huxley
08 June 18:00–19:00
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine Bettany Charles Betts
Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Genevieve Pugh Haralambos Dayantis Madhura Ghosh Victoria Druce Catherine Lu Design Editor Veronika McQuadeova
Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Thea Cunningham Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors
Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editors Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher
Walmsley Luke Turner Stephen Smith Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky Jeyaprakash Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games
Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Books Editor
Guo Heng Chin Photo Editors Miles Robertson Thomas Welch Travel Editor Chris Richardson Lifestyle Editor Richard Keller Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta
Zainab Ali Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Tim Arbabzadah Jamie Fraser Veli Akiner Samuel Furse Charlotte Ivison Illustrators Luca de Benedetti Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
ONLY TWO ISSUES LEFT Notice
This interactive course will give a first-hand insight into
how the science media works and explore how science
and innovation are communicated to the public. It will
provide an insight into media careers and a possible
first step towards transferring to jobs in broadcast and
related creative industries. The course includes a work-
shop in a fully equipped broadcast studio.
Presented by:
Gareth Mitchell, ‘Click’, BBC World Service
Vivienne Parry, ‘Am I Normal?’ BBC Radio 4
Greg Foot, ‘Secrets of the Universe’, BBC Three
The three-day course costs £875 with a discounted rate
of £675 for students. Places are strictly limited. Early
booking is advised. For further details contact Stepha-
nie O’Mahony via s.omahony@imperial.ac.uk
Considering a career in science media?
Lolcat of teh week
This week’s
Relentless
winner is
Joshua Price
That’s okay Keanu Reeves, we’re sad too
Science on Air
A hands-on introduction to broadcasting about
research and innovation
1–3 July
Stay in the know. Follow
@feliximperial on Twitter
Correction
In the article entitled ‘Lessons from the Mech
Eng refurbishment’ (Issue 1490 – 27/05/2011),
Faculty of Engineering Operating Officer Richard
Martin was incorrectly called Steve Martin.

