B O O K S
FELIX
22
Books Editor: Guo Heng Chin
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 03 june 2011 FELIX
D
o you remember that one
time when you stumbled
upon a book that capti-
vated you so much you
could skip meals and
read it way beyond bedtime just because
you couldn’t bear to tear yourself away
from the pages? Or that pang of sadness
and longing as you came to the end of
the novel and had to part with the won-
derful cast of characters with whom you
travelled though the pages of the book?
There’s one thing in common with those
books: good storytelling. Here’s a brief
rundown of the cogs and gears of what
makes a story engrossing.
Plot and pace
Plot is pretty much defined as ‘some-
thing happening’. Though plot is the
backbone of the story, it’s surprising
how many modern novelists forgo plot
in the name of avant-garde experimen-
tation, resulting in a piece which feels
pretentious. Without a plot, a story is
just a mumbo-jumbo of events.
Plot structure is generally divided into
three acts: the setup, where the char-
acters and setting are introduced; the
conflict or confrontation where our hero
or heroine faces an problem and is re-
quired to sort it out, and the resolution
or climax, where everything comes to-
gether and our hero either rises trium-
phant or succumbs to the conflict. This
structure is generally known as the three
act dramatic structure and most stories
fall under this category.
Pace is as important as plot itself, for a
novel with no significant events for the
first 100 pages often puts off readers (un-
less of course, you are writing for a 19th
century audience). A well-paced novel
keeps the reader constantly engaged by
striking a fine balance between exposi-
tion and moving the plot. This balance
is more important in science fiction and
fantasy novels where whole imagined
worlds must be introduced to the reader.
An elaborately detailed world lays the
ground for more complex stories and
gives the reader immense satisfaction
when the events unfold through the
second and third act, provided they con-
tinue reading up to there.
There are plenty of plot devices to
drive the plot and rhythm of the story,
but as space is constrained, only two
will be discussed here. Continuity is
when the author plants an item in the
early part of the story only to bring it
out later in the plot to solve a conflict.
A well-executed continuity brings about
the ‘Ah! That’s genius,’ moment from
readers. Continuity is key to a good plot
twist.
On the other side of the coin, there
is the deus ex machina, a plot device
ing conclusion they deserve for sticking
with the story for so long. Though not
specifically book-related, but neverthe-
less a good recent example of an other-
wise good story lost to dues ex machina
in storytelling is James Cameron’s Ava-
tar. Christopher Nolan’s Inception, on
the other hand, was such a satisfying film
because it did not break its internal logic
even when things got rough.
The importance of plot goes way back
into the antiquities: Aristotle, discussing
dramatic theory in his seminal Poetics,
considered plot more important than
characters. Which brings us to the next
main element of a story.
Characters
Is characterisation second to plot in
what makes a story good? Would Vladi-
mir Nabokov’s Lolita achieve the mas-
terpiece status it enjoys had Humbert
Humbert not been the colourful and
intriguing character he is? Would Yann
Martel’s Life of Pi have won the Booker
had Pi been merely as interesting as a
pie? Going further back, would Milton’s
Paradise Lost have stayed eternal had it
not been for the charismatic Satan?
Characters are what grounds readers
to the story. It is with the characters that
the readers empathise with, and empa-
The art of storytelling
Guo Heng Chin guides us through the nuts and bolts of a good story
thy is the bridge that connects the re-
ality of the reader to the reality of the
story-world. I’d like to think of char-
acters as an avatar for readers to enter
and explore the world of the story, very
much like the Na’vi avatars used by the
humans in Avatar.
What makes a protagonist interesting?
Ambiguity and depth is always appeal-
ing. A knight in shining armor with un-
shakable devotion to the good is vanilla.
Throw in a dash of the dark side, and a
sprinkle of flaw like arrogance or self-
doubt, and you get one engaging char-
acter. That’s why Darth Vader is cooler
than Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Or you can just make him or her tragi-
cally flawed like the Miltonian Satan
whose own perpetual arrogance brought
his downfall. You have to admit though,
it’s hard not to like a character who still
vaunts aloud amidst racking internal
emotions.
Or it could be just that the readers find
it easy to relate to the protagonist. Bella
Swan of the Twilight Saga is probably
the most one-dimensional character
in modern literature but yet an empire
was spun out of the Twilight books and
movies (Kristen Stewart is no better at
playing her) because she lives the dream
girls and Twilight mums around the
world can only fantasise about. Harry
Potter started out interesting as he strug-
gled to come to terms with the sudden
heap of fame and infamy dropped on his
lap as he stepped into Hogwarts for the
first time, but in the last few books, he
seems to have his gearstick jammed at
the angsty teenager gear.
Narrative and style
A good story stays in the mind of the
reader after they finish the book, but a
good story with great delivery etches
itself on the memory of the readers. Sto-
rytelling methods have changed drasti-
cally from the Dickensian time when
an omnipotent third person narrative is
conventional. The first person narrative
is the norm for modern literature; the ar-
gument is that it allows the readers to get
into the mind of the character more eas-
ily. The third person POV is still alive,
though more often in science fiction and
fantasy where there is a more pressing
need to describe the world around the
characters while modern literature pre-
fers to deal with the internal, emotional
environment of the character.
Narrative became more creative in the
20th century with literary colossuses
James Joyce and Virginia Wolf innovat-
ing the stream of consciousness narra-
tive which seeks to emulate the thought
process. William Faulkner’s The Sound
and the Fury tells the same event from
different character POVs. Rushdie’s
revered Midnight’s Children draws its
narrative style from the Indian storytell-
ing tradition: for the first time readers (I
was one of them) it might seem discon-
certing, but once you get used to it it’s a
jolly fun ride down the surreal India he
describes.
Experimentation with language forms
the other facet of storytelling. No writer
other than Vladimir Nabokov has such
eminence as an English prose stylist.
His Lolita remains the epitome of prose
style; it’s the only prose work that ex-
udes such finesse in wordplay and wit
and an abundance of luxuriant imager-
ies that it reads like poetry.
Putting it all together
Impeccable plot and pace, brilliant char-
acterisation and innovative narrative are
tenets of a good story but of course they
are not the only elements that make a
classic out of a novel. Ayn Rand’s Atlas
Shrugged has not the best writing nor
narrative (it desperately needs an editor
to trim it down), but its ambitious and
controversial themes were what writ her
name and the novel on stone. Neverthe-
less, those three elements are the funda-
mentals of most good storytelling and
are executed to perfection in some of
our most cherished stories.
which, in my opinion should be avoided
at all costs, for nothing spoils a good
story as much as a deus ex machina.
The Latin term translates to ‘god out of
the machine’; it originates from ancient
Greek tragedies where the actor portray-
ing a god is lowered onto the stage by
a crane. A deus ex machina is when the
writer resorts to employing an improb-
able device which was not previously
introduced, or a plot which defies the in-
ternal logic in order to excavate his or her
characters out of a mire and resolve the
conflict (e.g. an omnipotent entity sud-
denly emerges and solves all the prob-
lem). A dues ex machina turns to dust all
the effort spent developing the plot and
shortchanges the audience of the satisfy-
Valentin Paul being an absolute boss, we wouldn’t expect any less
“Throw in a dash of
the dark side [...] and
you get one engaging
character. That’s
why Darth Vader is
cooler than Obi-Wan
Kenobi”

