FELIX 23
TRAVEL
FRIDAY 03 JUNE 2011
ICELAND
GUO HENG CHIN SPENDS TWO WEEKS
IN THE GREAT ICELANDIC OUTDOORS
T
he eruption of the glacial volcano
Eyjafjallajökull last year severe-
ly disrupted European airspace
but pinned Iceland on the tourist
map. It’s easy to see why the is-
land in the middle of the North Atlantic was
not exactly the place most opt to go for vaca-
tion: it is not heir to a rich cultural heritage as
many European countries are, nor does it ex-
ude an exotic charm and sun of Asian escapes.
However, Iceland does evoke its own sort of
charm. I was in the capital of Iceland, Reykja-
vik for two weeks to work on my MSc project
during which I had the chance to sample con-
troversial Icelandic dishes, frequent the city’s
geothermal pools popular amongst the locals
and explore the great outdoors that Iceland
had to offer.
Reykjavik
Reykjavik is the northernmost capital in the
world and is believed to be the place where
the first Viking settlers who founded Iceland
settled. Today, half of Iceland’s population
lives in Reykjavik.
Like all capitals, it is home to the coun-
try’s best museums. Icelandic museums are
humble compared to the ones in Europe, but
are still a rich source of Icelandic culture.
The Culture House holds the Icelandic Saga
museum on its ground floor. The sagas are
Iceland’s cherished literary heritage and also
serve as a historical account of Icelandic life
during the middle ages.
Whale watching is another attraction in
Reykjavik. It cost about €40 to go on a trip
which lasts for a few hours. In the summer
months, the whale watching boats drop by
the puffin colonies as well. However, whale
sighting is not guaranteed on the trips.
From Reykjavik you can drive or follow
a tour around the Golden Triangle circuit,
which covers the Gullfoss waterfall, Geysir
and Þingvellir (Þ is pronounced as th-) Na-
tional Park, three of Iceland’s popular sights.
Aurora sighting trips are available all year
round, but are weather dependent.
However, everything in Iceland is exorbi-
tantly priced, especially eating out. A simple
meal in a restaurant puts you back 2000 Ice-
landic Kronur (£10). A paperback costs £13.
And a pint of beer costs £5!
Hot pools and hot chicks
One of the distinctive attractions in Iceland is
the geothermal pools. The pools are not just
tourist spots; they are also the social hub for
Icelanders. Maybe the cut-throat price of alco-
hol makes the pub less appealing for socialis-
ing. the thermal pools fulfill a social function
very much like the pubs in Britain.
The rich geothermal resources in Iceland
have given rise to a large number of ther-
mal pools across Iceland and cheap access
as well. Geothermal water used to be chan-
neled directly into the pool but the rich min-
eral content corrodes the pipes, so now they
use the geothermal water to heat up normal
water (that’s how much geothermal resources
they have), so I was a bit disappointed that
it does not reek of sulphur like some of the
natural onsen in Japan. The water in the pool
is treated with minimal chlorine, so you are
expected to shower thoroughly before you en-
ter the pool.
I read once that Iceland has the highest pro-
portion of good-looking women in the world
and I did not believe it until I went to the ther-
mal pools. After visiting the thermal pools
every alternate evening (to chill out of course,
nothing else!) I can vouch that it’s statistically
significant that there are an inordinate propor-
tion of beautiful women in Iceland (Reykjavik
at least). The thermal pools are like a beach in
summer, and most of the Scandinavian beau-
ties are clad in bikinis even though the temper-
ature above the water is a chilling 3-4 degrees
celcius. There must be something in the water.
Moby Dick and the most disgusting food
on earth
Culinary experience has always been one of
the things I look out for when I am travelling.
Iceland may not have the most innovative cui-
sines, but it does have cuisines that can not
be found anywhere else in the world. The
first is whale meat. Iceland is one of the few
countries in the world where whale is com-
mercially hunted.
Traditionally, whale meat has been con-
sumed as cheap meat. In the late 1980s, a mor-
atorium was imposed on commercial whaling,
but was lifted in 2006. Now Moby Dick is
making a comeback on restaurant menus.
My first taste of the largest mammal in the
world was in the form of a burger at a hip res-
taurant bar called Geysir in downtown Reyk-
javik. Moby Dick has a similar tangy texture
and seared appearance to its bovine counter-
part, but a much richer and fuller flavour. It
has a distinctive bloody aftertaste, and if you
like your beef rare, you would enjoy a loin of
Moby Dick.
Moby Dick is available as steak and even on
a stick as kebabs. But the best whale meat I’ve
ever tried was at an upmarket sushi restaurant
an Icelandic friend recommended me. It’s a
bit on the expensive side, but definitely worth
visiting just for its whale sashimi. The smoked
slice of Moby Dick wrapped in a core of wasabi
cream cheese, watercress and pickle bursts with
heavenly flavour as you take a bite. Dipped in
the specially prepared citrus and olive oil soy
sauce, it was hands down the best culinary in-
dulgence I experienced in Reykjavik.
Hakarl (pronounced hau-kat), or rotten
shark, is the most infamous of Icelandic cui-
sines. Made from rotting Greenland sharks
for 6 months, it has a fearsome reputation and
eating it is considered a feat of manliness.
Gordon Ramsay puked while eating it. Antho-
ny Bourdain called it “the single worst, most
disgusting and terrible tasting thing [he’s ever
eaten]”. It evoked gastronomical terror when
I mentioned hakarl to Icelanders; amongst the
comments I got from them: “you only eat it
once in your life.”, and “I wouldn’t eat some-
thing that tastes like urine…”.
Hakarl’s reputation stems from its over-
whelming ammonia smell, which invokes a
gag response from first timers. It comes in un-
menacing light brown cubes. The hakarl has a
chewy texture and it’s only when you munch
it for a while that the ammonia stench assaults
your taste buds and nostrils. Never kiss after
eating it, advised a local.
Venturing into Earth’s butt-crack
Iceland may not be well known for its outdoor
activities, but it does have some very interest-
ing and unique spots for those seeking adven-
ture. Glacial hiking is certainly a trip worth do-
ing. There is a glacier is two and a half hours
away from the capital popular among adven-
ture companies but is large enough that you
feel that you are the only human there. You
can try your hands on ice climbing on some of
the ice walls.
Those with a diving qualification might be
tempted to dive in one of the most unique div-
ing sites in the world. Located in the Þingvel-
lir National Park, Silfra is the rift between
the Eurasian and North American continen-
tal plates, and is a UNESCO World Heritage
site. That’s right, it’s probably the only place
in the world where you can dive in between
two continents. It’s an open water dive like no
other because it feels like diving in a water-
filled cave; you dive through winding crevices
4-5m apart, and though you stay at the depth
of 10m most of the time, right below you is
a fall of up to 30m! Silfra also has a stonking
visibility of over 100m, making it one of the
best viz sites for diving anywhere in the world.
The National Park is also home to the world’s
oldest parliament, right next to the Silfra crack.

