FELIX
24
LIFESTYLE
Lifestyle Editor: Richard Keller
lifestyle.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 03 JUNE 2011
Last week, whilst consuming a coffee
and éclair, I had a debate with a friend
about string theory, gravity, and wheth-
er everything is made of particles or
waves. It was then that a rather charm-
ing French friend stopped for a brief
chat. And, sure enough, we concluded
that French women are definitely made
of waves (not that they don’t have good
particles too).
It was at that moment that the topic of
Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s alleged rape
on a New York chambermaid strung up.
And it appears that amongst the quag-
mire of myriad rumours and juicy de-
tails that have engulfed the story, one
thing stands out: France romanticises
sexual predation.
In a country where cafés and patis-
series are found on every street corner,
it is apparent that sex and politics go
together like croissants and coffee. It
is why many people had little problem
with the reputation of the married for-
mer IMF chief and presidential hopeful
as a “great seducer”, entrenching many
a woman’s gravitational field. France is
sexy and proud of it – a country where
flirting, seduction and sensuality add a
certain spice to the daily dose of joie de
vivre.
The éclair that grates relativity
100 minutes from LCY to ZRH
Richard Keller on a relaxing sojourn in Zurich
I
was in Zurich last week; a beauti-
ful sunny day in what the Zürcher
like to consider to be the best of
Switzerland, its peak. It lacks the
15,203 ft altitude of the Dufour-
spitze, though, on a day like today the
view across the lake is just as amazing.
Strolling along Bahnhofstrasse the fash-
ion statements (for women) walking by
present themselves mainly as wearing
shorts or a mini skirt, leather boots that
go all the way up to the knees with flat
heels and a top that has flowers printed
all over it. In short, life is beautiful here.
It’s refreshing to get out of London
every so often; there is an unmatched
pace to the city that is going to cost me
a few years of my life one day. Right
now I don’t have to worry about that,
I’ve come here to delve into the well-
liked societal appetite for coffee houses.
One thing to note about the city I’m in
is that it’s probably the most un-wordly
banking-capital. There’s only one week
every year, when the world’s bottin
mondain come to Zurich, the week be-
fore the Art Basel opens its doors. This
eating a pastry filled with liquid poo.
The problem with all those French
patisseries that have started to conquer
London – Paul, Ladurée, Pierre Hermé
– is that they are all overpriced, all inca-
pable of producing a decent éclair. The
A lifestyle capital on water. A little like London, just on a small scale!
is the time when the best parties take
place. Rich people usually only visit
Zurich to see how their money is doing,
then fly home again the same day.
Sitting in a little café in a side street
just off Paradeplatz, the people in Zu-
rich appear to be generally very happy.
It seems nobody is working today; ev-
eryone has become a member of the
‘Café Society’. A perfect place to dis-
cuss business, art, politics and philoso-
phy; and to gossip. There has been a
revival of the coffee houses again, after
they first flourished in the 17th
century.A
meeting point for people of all classes,
which has become the place of choice
for work, rest and play – somewhere in-
between home and office.
With free Wi-Fi this conveys the im-
pression of an ideal location to get some
work done for the day. I can start typ-
ing on my laptop while sunk into an
armchair and kindly ask the waiter to
bring me a hot masala chai covered in
a thick layer of lovely frothed milk. It’s
like working from home, with an endless
supply of Luxemburgerli, little cream
filled delights, to go with your tea.
Spinning the globe you may find cof-
fee houses to be a far cry from what
you expected. Don’t hope to be served
an Italian espresso in a Middle Eastern
ahwah, or a hot chocolate in a dutch
coffeeshop. What remains is the idea of
a place for people to gather and shape
commerce, literature, history and revo-
lution alike.
Hours later, when it is still 28 degrees
and all work is done, there’s nothing
better than to enjoy a freshly made ice
cream. Acanto is not the gelateria at Pi-
azza della Cisterna in San Gimignano,
where you can enjoy licking your ama-
rena cornetto under the Tuscan sun, but
it’s as close as you can get. Switzerland
is not Italy, but there’s always an Ital-
ian close by che fa buon gelato italia-
no. Then it’s back to business, I have a
flight to London to catch in two hours.
difference between these patisseries and
Greggs is that in the former you expect
to find high standards of service and
product, as well as originality, flair, and
sophistication. But you don’t.
And then there is Dalloyau, located
in Paris. Only two and a quarter hours
from St Pancras, it’s worth the trip be-
cause the French have kept the best for
themselves. Their éclairs are brilliant.
Just brilliant. The chocolate crazily
rich, the pastry delightfully light. As
my mind faded during my discussion
with my friend and turned towards the
lacklusterness of my éclair, I could only
gauge that Physics and its Theory of Ev-
erything doesn’t have an answer to why
so few things are absolutely the best in
their class. Everything is supposed to be
relative. And yet my taste buds tell me
that the only éclairs that stand out, that
are without question and unanimously
the best of their kind, are those from
Dalloyau.
This éclair is totally blowing my mind right now...
Do you have no
friends and no
style? Perfect!
Write for Lifestyle
Are you hilarious, topical, witty
and well written? No? Well nei-
ther are any of our Lifestyle
writers. If there is something
that you feel strongly about, a
burning issue that cannot be
left untackled, a point that you
feel needs to be made urgent-
ly, then feel free to submit a
600 – 800 word piece to Life-
style. lifestyle.felix@imperial.
ac.uk.
We will allow people to write
anonymously but we will not
accept anonymous submis-
sions (we at least have to
know who you are.)
We’ll give extra brownie points
to students who let us know
what they’re writing about be-
fore they write it.
Charles Betts
easy sexual give-and-take, where men
flirt and women parry and no one makes
a fuss about it, my mind ventured into a
parallel universe as I could just not get
over how underwhelming my chocolate
éclair was – I might as well have been
“Sex and politics
go together like
croissants and
coffee”
Feminists say that, to succeed in
France, women in politics, business and
the media have to put up with “heavy
flirting” bordering on harassment. But
as my friend pontificated on how France
is questioning its self-image as a land of

