FELIX Friday 03 june 2011 25
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
S
o of course you’re going to
have to take rifles.”
“What?”
We had gone to see Lor-
raine Craig, Chair of Impe-
rial’s Exploration Board, about our pro-
posed expedition.
“Rifles. There will be polar bears on
Svalbard; they outnumber people. I’ve
had them poke their heads into my tent
once or twice.”
“Ah, okay… yes we’ll take rifles.”
And so began the process of turning
the thoughts that I had during the sum-
mer of 2010, into a year of planning and
preparation. The aim was an expedition
in the summer of 2011 to Svalbard in
the European High Arctic, an archipela-
go of large islands between 78° and 81°
North.
None of us are climbers or had any
other particularly technical experience.
What we can do is walk, and what bet-
ter place to walk for long distances than
over an ice cap. Imperial has seen three
expeditions to Greenland in the last 10
years, but the last time an Imperial ex-
pedition went to Svalbard was in 1960.
Our plan was simple: walk for a long
time over Svalbard. The details (how,
where and for what reason) were to be
worried about later.
Our team of six had the first team
meeting. Training started shortly after-
wards, twice a week and then one week-
end a month. The plan developed – we
would be hauling sledges each weigh-
ing about 90kg for 350km, aiming to
summit Svalbard’s highest mountain
Temperatures rarely dipped below zero
and there was a worrying lack of snow.
After hauling the sledges over a high
pass above Rannoch Moor, we gave up
out attempts at skiing and hauling and
decided to set up a base camp and walk
from there. This however required us to
be close to a pub for the coming New
Year celebrations so after a 7km walk
along a frozen loch in the dark, the most
pathetic petrol fire ever made and a
short train journey, we settled down as
the only campers in Roy Bridge for the
rest of the week.
The episode in Scotland convinced
us that skiing wasn’t a good idea and
so we are now taking snow shoes and
crampons. The rest of the equipment and
food list was a mammoth task in itself to
purchase and assemble and at the time of
writing most of the 400kg of it is sitting
in a warehouse in Wandsworth, waiting
to be shipped next week. 300kg of that
is food, enough for each person to have
4500 calories per day. The food list is ex-
tremely important as to have the energy
to trek at temperatures averaging -15°C
we not only have to eat a lot, but have
the morale and desire to eat it. The main
meals consist of a carbohydrate with a
sauce. Choosing the sauces involved
an evening sitting round with about 15
powdered bags of sauce ‘tasting’ them.
Most were inedible and were ditched
but we have a cosy selection to give us a
bit of variety. As well as main meals we
have powdered desserts, porridge and
raisins for breakfast, and 1000 calories
per person per day of snack food.
The main difficulty in planning an
expedition is trying to understand what
it’s going to be like when you get there.
The problem is that most expeditions
go where no one is really sure what it
really is like. The main settlements of
Svalbard are well known and we were
lucky enough to have met people who
have lived and worked there who have
been extremely helpful. We have re-
ceived a huge amount of help from the
British Schools Exploring Society who
are helping us ship the food and equip-
ment and some brilliant advice from
their Leader in Svalbard – “don’t go up
that glacier, it’s 100% impassable” (nuff
said, we’re avoiding that particular gla-
cier). Most of all though, Imperial’s Ex-
ploration Board have been crucial in not
only providing us with financial support
and advice, but also for putting us in
touch with other funding bodies. I was
recently asked by the trustee of one trust
if we’d like to take his father’s rifle with
us to the Arctic as it had been used in the
1930’s to shoot seals.
The skills we needed to learn range
from expedition first aid to crevasse res-
cue to shooting, all of which we’ll hope-
fully never have to use. It may seem odd
to prepare for a year for a month’s travel
but the nearer it gets the more exciting
it becomes. We leave on August 7 and
begin walking on August 10, returning
to the Nordenskioldbreen glacier where
we started on September 10. Half of that
time will be in 24 hour daylight and near-
ly all of it over ice and snow. Most of the
time we will be 1000m above sea level
and there are dangers from crevasses,
polar bears, frostbite and fog that can last
for days are very real. If we reach our 80°
north objective and carry on the 7km to
the northern tip of Spitsbergen there will
be no more land until the North Pole. But
after a year I know we’re ready.
So all in all I’m not too worried about
the polar bears. Two rifles, a flare gun
and four trip wires should be enough.
All the preparation means we can con-
centrate on appreciating the spectacular
place we are going to. Jagged moun-
tains covered in ice and snow stretching
into the distance; an ice cap hundreds of
metres thick that will be our home; the
sun in one long set and rise, never quite
touching the horizon until late August;
and the feeling of being in the wild.
We’re taking “enough
[food] for each
person to have 4500
calories per day”
From left: Alex Kendall, Andrew Elliott, Nathaniel Bottrell, Sietse
Braakman, and Heather Jones. 6th member Alistair Cott is not pictured
Newtontoppen (1717m) and reaching
the 80° north line of latitude, which just
touches the tip of the main island, Spits-
bergen.
At the end of the Autumn term, over
New Year’s, we all went to Scotland,
camping for a week to practise being
cold and hauling sledges. Unfortunately
for us it must have been the warmest
winter Scotland has had for a while.
RIFLES, POLAR
BEARS, AND
SUB-ZERO
TEMPERATURES
ALE X KENDALL REPORTS ON
PREPARATIONS FOR SUMMER
EXPEDITION TO SVALBARD

