FELIX
26
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 03 june 2011
Twatter ... is not
here again.
So yeah twatter is still not back.I’ll tell you why.Imagine
exams are a Catholic priest,and we are boys.They can’t
keep their hands off us, and no one will stop them.
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
Higgs boson found in sock drawer
T
he Higgs boson has until now been an
entirely theoretical construct. Mainly so
that fat people can shift the blame for
all the times they ripped their trousers when
kneeling down (“if it weren’t for the Higgs
particle I’d be wafer-thin!”). The discovery did
not, however, occur in the supercooled cool-
ness that is the LHC, but in fact in a lowly un-
dergraduate student’s bedroom one morning as
he was looking for that one missing sock that
you can never find. We tracked down this ex-
traordinary individual for an interview:
“Honestly I forgot I even had that. Last
[night] me and my housemates got pretty
blasted at the union and as we wandered back
home we just found it in a garbage pile outside
Burger King. My mate was like ‘dude I think
that’s the Higgs boson.’ I didn’t even know
what that was because I’m a biologist, but I
stole it anyway as stealing traffic cones is so
cliché. When I got home I forgot about it and
passed out.”
If the employees at Burger King realise what
they threw out with the trash (and that’s a pretty
big if, we are talking about burger-flippers here
after all) they will no doubt attempt to claim
the Higgs boson as their own, although should
this occur it is likely that this lucky biologist
will invoke the law of shotgun, thereby nullify-
ing any potential lawsuits placed against him.
The implications of this discovery are enor-
mous: not only are we now one step closer to
understanding the Universe, but all those an-
noying physicists who bet against its existence
because the money would be a consolation
prize will now be that little bit poorer, unable
to afford pocket protectors for the next term.
Our biologist is certainly going to be winning
this year’s Nobel Prize in Physics, which he’ll
probably spend on student essentials: paying
off his loans and copious amounts of alcohol.
Guy who walks out after half the time:
He puts his hand up and gives in the neatly
stacked answer sheets. He then stands up and
walks out with a self-satisfied grin on his face.
The fact that he is a smug bastard is why he
is so used to ‘self-satisfying’. He waits around
and tells everyone how ‘stimulating’that exam
was and how he found question 3 part b ‘in-
credibly interesting’.
Girl who has a mental breakdown halfway
through the exam:
She’s been revising for months now, but will
still go and throw up after an hour. At the end
informs everyone that she has ‘failed’, results
day comes, she got a first.
Guy who takes the paper with him:
He’ll be writing and scribbling out answers all
the way to the end. He will also not fill in the
front cover of the extra paper he has until af-
ter the exam has finished. The minute it takes
to fill out the front could be crucial. After the
exam he runs home and looks up every answer,
and tells everyone in a 5 mile radius that he
thinks he missed a mark or two.
Guy who uses 10 booklets:
Sitting up at the front, he writes an essay for
a 1 mark question. For a 3 mark question he
writes 2 essays and will later cross one out af-
ter deciding that it doesn’t include every min-
ute detail. He seems to take pride in the fact
that, while normal human beings are strug-
gling to even put down one word, his alien
brain is spouting out thousands of poetic son-
nets, even in a maths exam. Will probably be
talking to Guy who takes the paper with him
and Girl who has a mental breakdown half-
way through after the exam.
Guy who is coughing and sniffing the whole
way through:
He’s either taken too much cocaine that morn-
ing or, more likely, is too timid to put his hand
up and ask to go to the toilet. Please, for the
sake of everyone in the entire hall who can
hear you sniveling, just man the fuck up and
ask to get some tissues, I’m sure you’ll recog-
nise them from your nerve-calming escapades
the night before.
Guy who still hasn’t mastered how to fill out
and stick down the strip at the side:
No, you don’t rip off that bit, that’s for them
to rip off if they can’t read your name. You de-
serve to fail just for that.
Girl who is wearing as little clothing as
possible:
She thinks she’s fit, like a real world 9. She’s
wearing denim shorts so short they actually
qualify as a belt, presumably mistaking the
exam hall for a fucking Rihanna video shoot.
In case you didn’t notice her, she walks in after
everyone has sat down and slowly heads to the
front, giving every guy a ‘you’re a pervert for
even daring to set eyes on me’ look.
Guy who walks in late thinking he’s a
badboy:
Yeah, that’s right bitches, I don’t care about
anything. It’s an exam, and I don’t even give a
shit. Oh, I’m late; yeah well I play by my own
rules. I’m going to just sit down and lean back
in the seat like I’m Fat Joe.
He thinks that his rock star ways mean that
Girl who is wearing as little clothing as pos-
sible is ‘dripping wet for him’. She thinks he’s
as much of a dick as everyone else does.
People in exams: worse than Mladic?
Unintentionally
Homoerotic Rap Lyrics
Me thinks the lady doth protest too
much. Also I think if you just talk to
a women and say ‘Excuse me miss,
but I am straight’ she may think
you’re overcompensating slightly.
Maybe that’s why you had to ask her
to excuse you again - you are coming
off as defensive.
“That’s gay. I ain’t into liking
dudes. No way.”
Jay-Z - La-La-La (Excuse Me
Miss Again)
Yeah they will be saying “whoa, what
the fuck is your finger doing so near
to my asshole?”
“Finger near a nigga asshole like
whoa.”
So you’re idea of a party is inform-
ing your friends that looking at them
makes you want a blow job. That may
ruin the mood a bit.
“You niggas remind me of a
strip club. ‘Cause every time
you come around it’s like:
‘What? I just gotta get my dick
sucked’.”
DMX – Party Up (Up In Here)
Black Rob – Whoa
I think his posse would have some-
thing to say to that you know. Do they
not get a choice in the matter? They
should form a union.
“Keep your posse on my penis.”
Lejo – Now It’s On
A rude way to ask for a hand job. The
second sentence implies it is a rite
of passage.
“I got a lot work to do so toss me
and be gone. You’re a big man now.”
Nate Dogg - Hardest Man In
Town
I usually find lube, old magazines, and a whole lot of shame in my sock drawer
DRUNKEN MATE OF THE WEEK
Send your photos to felix@imperial.ac.uk.
As facebook stalking to find them is hard
HANGMAN
Rule #34 of the tabloid guide to
journalism: the question mark in the
title means that anything goes...

