FELIX Friday 03 june 2011 27
Scorpio
This week, you’re living upside down.
It’s not the best to be honest. You spend
the whole time smelling people’s feet
and trying to stop falling into the sky.
The toilet arrangements are frankly
unspeakable and getting punched in the
nuts constantly is getting annoying...
Horoscopes
Aries
This week, you’re in the cinema when
the man beside you plays the old ‘I’m
yawning’trick. You begin to suspect that
he’s a bit of a maverick when instead
of putting his arm around you, he just
stares open-mouthed at your face. For
the entire film. Without blinking...
Taurus
This week, you’re a fluorescent light
bulb. You have a perfect vantage point
to stare down girl’s tops. However, you
do not have hands or genitalia to pleasure
yourself. Life’s a bitch, no? Also, you
overhear that you’re getting replaced by
new-fangled spotlights. Damn hipsters...
Gemini
This week, the end of term is tantalis-
ingly close and you start planning your
summer holidays. Unfortunately you get
an internship at a bank and thus consign
yourself to the grind instead of the beach.
Obviously it’s your call but you can’t help
think that it’s somehow Thatcher’s fault...
Cancer
This week, you’re manning your post
in Afghanistan when a group of Taliban
fighters launch an attack. You charge into
a hail of bullets and single-handedly re-
pel the assault using only the chin strap
on your hat. In honour of your bravery,
Prince Philip lets you shag Queenie.
Leo
This week, you’re trying to surrepi-
tiously take a photo of some young
children. You’re not being weird or
anything, it’s just a beautiful shot. Ok,
maybe you shouldn’t have offered them
sweets and locked them in your base-
ment but GODDAMNIT IT’S ART!
Virgo
This week, you’re having a relaxing cig-
arette outside the Library when some guy
walks out and spills his coffee all over
you. You take the only reasonable course
of action and stub your cigarette out on
his forehead. He looks at you with joy
and says, “You’ve finally noticed me...”
Libra
This week, you’re trying to shag
Ariane. She’s such a fucking tease.
You’ve complimented her, identified
the constellation correctly, and even
fucking had a bloody conversation with
her. What do you have to do to get this
cyber-chick to give it up!?!? GAH!
Sagittarius
This week, you’re wondering if you’re
going to let your boyfriend lick your
asshole. It’s kind of weird, but then
again it might feel nice. When you
explain your conumdrum to your over-
stressed, exam-mode best friend, you’re
unceremoniously told to “fuck off.”
Capricorn
This week, you decide to start going to
a martial arts class after getting the shit
kicked out of you in the Union. On the
first day the instructor calls you in front
of the class and roundhouse kicks you
in the face. Apparently you’ve “just got
that kind of face.”
Aquarius
This week, you get a booty call from
your hottest ‘hoe’. Apparently her
‘bitch-ass man’ is asleep and she’ll be
coming over to yours with “no panties
on.” You’re not impressed and shout
down the phone, “goddamnit mom I’ve
got an exam tomorrow!”
Pisces
This week, you’re trying to pay attention
to the person that you’re talking to but
you’re distracted by the massive bulge in
his pants. He notices and says, “Oh don’t
worry, it’s just my lunch” and pulls out
a lump of rotting chicken. You politely
decline when he offers you “a bite.”
DRUNKEN
MATE OF
THE WEEK
Sleeping in the bathroom so that you can vomit in the toilet if you need to seems like a good idea until your
mate comes in and says, “You don’t mind if I take a dump do you? I’m prairie-dogging here...”
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
Man waves hands in air,
reported to “just not care”

