Imperial took a squad of 5 players to the sun
drenched ground in Hampstead, ready to face
women’s teams from all over London. First up,
Imperial & Hampstead (whom I’ll now refer to as
Hamperial) faced a confident looking Headstone
Manor. With only the loss of 1 wicket, some quick
singles, and an economical over bowled by Priya
Patel, Headstone Manor achieved a mediocre 39
off their 5 overs. Becca and Jen, the two opening
batswomen for Hamperial, took 1 over to get their
eye in, not wanting to be over complacent. With
3 fours and a single scored by Jen in the second
over, Headstone Manor were left floundering. The
barrage of fours continued and Hamperial raced to
victory comfortably within their 5 overs – leaving
the Headstone Manor girls shamefaced.
After a rather long mobile max timeout (long live
Felix Sport sponsored by
BUSINESS
The importance of
business plans:
Page 11
ARTS
Chekhov in action at
the National Theatre:
Page 14
SCIENCE
HIV treatment
protects partners
too: Page 6
MUSIC
Taking a look at East
London’s Field Day
festival: Page 18
TELEVISION
Why you should
believe in Glee:
Page 20
SPORT
03.06.11
ISSUE 1491
C
ricket, cupcakes and comedy – who
could ask for more on a glorious
Bank Holiday? For those of you
weren’t chained to your desks re-
vising, you’ll remember that Good
Friday was like the perfect English summer’s day.
With the clear blue skies, sun beating down and
public deciding ‘less is more’ when choosing their
outfit for the day – one could have mistaken this to
be in the height of summer.
Imperial women’s cricket team were lucky to be
invited to join forces with Hampstead women’s
cricket club, in their inaugural 6-a-side tourna-
ment. Little did we know that we had been wel-
comed into the arms of celebrities, with Jim Carter
(actor) as Chairperson of the Hampstead CC and
acting as master of the ceremony for the day. ...Continued on Page 31
Captain Priya
Shah reports
as Imperial
women’s cricket
team join forces
with Hampstead
Cricket
coalition
finish
second
the IPL) – in which we ate our weight’s worth of
cupcakes and flapjacks, Hamperial faced Underhill
in their second group match. Our reputation as a
strong batting side continued, with Amy scoring
a quick fire 33, including two sixes. It was only
afterwards we found out that she was actually a
hockey player!!! With Leanne being clean bowled,
Hamperial were determined not to falter, and Bes-
sie joined Amy to steer us to a comfortable 65-2 off
5 overs. Great overs were bowled by both Kiran
and Kushani – each taking a wicket and Kushani
taking a great catch at deep mid-off, off Kiran’s
bowling. Combined with some impressive fielding
by Kirsten, this ensured that Underhill were dead
and buried, reduced to 31-5.
From the following group matches – it was evi-
dent that Wanstead, Potters Bar, Headstone Manor
and Hamperial were the strongest teams. With two
comfortable wins under our belt, and one group
match remaining, we were resolute not to enter
the final with any black marks on our mark sheet.
The match against UCL was a tense affair. A mean
first over bowled by Kushani set the tone, and UCL
struggled to find the gaps in the field. With only
23 on the board, a tight final over by Priya Shah
giving away just 2 runs restricted UCL to 25-1
from their 5 overs. Hamperial, feeling confident
that the match should soon be in the bag, opened
the batting with experienced batswomen Kushani
and Lucy H. However, UCL bowled perfect line
and length, leaving Hamperial struggling to push
the run rate past 5 an over. Frustratingly, the match
ended in a tie; however it still meant that we fin-
No, we don’t understand why the dog is there either...

