FELIX
4
NEWS
Friday 03 june 2011
T
here was a brief glimpse of a man
slumped against a grey cell door on
the video link to Babar Ahmad’s
prison cell in a special unit at Long
Lartin maximum-security prison.
He observed as the trial took place below him
from a discrete camera overlooking the jury
box. Britain’s longest held detainee-without-
charge cannot simply walk through the doors of
Southwark Crown Court, even though he’s not
the one on trial.
Four men sat in the dock last Tuesday 31st of
May, officers of an elite counter-terrorism police
force, the Territorial Support Group (TSG);
Police Constables Nigel Cowley, Roderick
James-Bowen, Mark Jones, and Detective
Constable John Donohue.
They are held accused of committing assault
occasioning actual bodily harm during the arrest
of Babar Ahmad, a former Imperial student and
staffmember,onDecember2nd2003athishome
in Tooting, South London. Babar Ahmad was
previously an engineering student at Imperial
and working as an ICT support analyst for the
college before he was arrested and detained
under the Terrorism Act. Although he was
released without charge six days later, he was
re-arrested the following year and continues to
be detained while fighting extradition to the US.
Two years ago, the Met police commissioner
admitted that he was subject to abuse during the
arrest and he received £60,000 compensation,
but the officers involved now face charges. If
found guilty the maximum sentence they could
receive is five years imprisonment.
From a hidden door, the jury were ushered
into the courtroom; the twelve people who
will decide the fate of these four men. Upon a
dais, the judge overlooked the proceedings as
the barristers went to work in their wigs and
gowns. A dozen people had gathered to watch
from the public gallery. Babar Ahmad’s father
sat there, a small well-dressed man peering at
the proceedings from above his spectacles,
accompanied by a young woman, his daughter.
Jonathan Laidlaw QC stood to present
his closing speech for the prosecution. He
recapped the injuries that Babar Ahmad had
sustained in the arrest, described by forensic
medical examiners, and totalling more than 70
physical injuries. Reminding the jury that all
of the officers denied landing a single blow, he
explained that there could be no middle ground;
either the officers were truthful or they had lied
to conceal an appalling assault. The officers’
defence told the jury that Babar Ahmad had
struggled during the arrest and “fought like a
caged tiger” inflicting the injuries upon himself.
But the prosecution countered; none of the
medical examiners had identified any fighting
injuries on his hands. Laidlaw posed a question
rhetorically to the jury: why might these officers
have been driven to attack Babar Ahmad? They
could have been frightened he speculated, or
decided to inflict their own form of punishment,
or perhaps they had a racial motive.
B
abar Ahmad was formerly a
student and staff member at
Imperial, working as an ICT
support analyst in the Mechanical
Engineering department. On
December 2nd 2003, counter-
terrorism police arrested him in a
predawn raid at his home in Tooting,
South London. During the arrest, he
sustained 73 forensically recorded
injuries including bleeding in his ear
and urine. He alleges that he was
beaten, choked, and subjected to
religious verbal abuse. Although
the IPCC initially refuted his claims,
Met police commissioner, Sir Paul
Stephenson, admitted in 2009 that
he was submitted to “grave abuse
tantamount to torture” during the
arrest and he received compensation
totalling £60,000. Four of the counter-
terrorism officers involved in the arrest
in 2003 now face criminal charges. If
found guilty of assault occasioning
actual bodily harm the officers could
receive up to five years in prison.
At the time, Babar Ahmad’s arrest
was the latest in the War on Terror
and part of ‘Operation Quarrier’, in
which three other men were arrested
in Southwest London and detained
under the Terrorism Act. On the day
of his arrest in 2003, Felix reported
(pictured above) that a room in
college was secured and searched
by police with computers dismantled
and removed for investigation.
He was released six days later
without charge. However, he was
re-arrested on August 6th 2004
after the US issued an extradition
warrant, accusing him of using
websites and e-mail to raise funds to
support terrorists in Afghanistan and
Chechnya. Legal wrangling over his
extradition is still ongoing and has
passed from UK courts, to the House
of Lords, and now to the European
court of human rights. Imperial
College Union passed policy in 2004
fully supporting Babar Ahmad in his
fight against extradition. In March
2007, former Union President,
John Collins, wrote to then Home
Secretary, John Reid, urging him to
halt extradition proceedings.
Babar Ahmad is now the longest
detained prisoner in the UK without
charge, having been imprisoned for
more than six years – 2493 days on
the day of print.
The story of
Babar Ahmad
Unbeknown to either Babar Ahmad or the
TSG officers, MI5 had planted a bug in the
house to monitor his activities, which recorded
the events of that December morning. The jury
has heard the recording and read mutually
agreed transcripts from the bug. It may be the
first time that MI5 surveillance material has
been used in the prosecution of police officers.
Cumulatively, it has now taken more than 100
hours in court to analyse the 12 minutes of
recording and the subsequent events that took
place during the arrest.
In a predawn raid, counter-terrorism police
invaded Babar Ahmad’s house and arrested
him in his home at around 5am. Upon being
confronted in his bedroom, the prosecution said
that he raised his arms in surrender, but two of the
arresting officers said that he adopted a “fighting
stance”. Testifying in court last month, Babar
Ahmad claimed he was victim to a “sustained
and very violent assault” in which he was beaten
so badly that he thought he was going to die.
All of the defendants have denied mocking
Babar Ahmad or his faith. Pc James Bowen
has told the court that the MI5 recording shows
that officers did not shout, “Where is your
God now?” – an allegation that he described
as a “black cloud over me personally and
professionally.”
Three of Babar Ahmad’s neighbours on
Fountain road witnessed him being taken by
officers from his house to a police van. None
of them saw him struggle or shout, which the
prosecutor told the jury contradicts the officers’
claims that he struggled and shouted violently.
The first defendant’s lawyer stood to address
the jury and asked them to “try to put yourself
in Roderick James-Bowen’s shoes – or should
I say, boots” and lifted up a single black police
boot, slamming it down upon the stand for
emphasis. “This was not the arrest of some
computer geek for stealing IT weekly magazines
on Tooting High Street”, he said, “Mr Ahmad
was not some nine stone weakling who’s only
exercise was the walk to the tube on his way
to aeronautical engineering classes at Imperial
College.” The defence reminded the jury that
he was just months away from a black belt in
kung fu at the time and that a samurai sword
was found in his bedroom.
Controversially, Babar Ahmad fought in the
Bosnian War of the early 1990s. The prosecution
argued that he was a volunteer on a humanitarian
mission, and was only recruited in the fighting
when he could no longer stand to watch the
killing of Bosnian Muslims. However, the
defence described him as “an unpaid mercenary
in someone else’s war.” The shrapnel wounds he
sustained during the war “were not the kind of
injuries you get on Tooting High Street – even
the rougher parts.” But testifying in court last
month, Babar Ahmad refuted this interpretation
saying he was “no Al-Qaeda Rambo.”
The defence concluded: “This was not Wolfie
Smith and the Tooting Liberation Front… This
was the real thing, as recognised by MI5 and
anti-terrorist officers.”
In the public gallery a woman leant forward
on her seat, watching the proceedings intently.
Jenny Nelson, a professor of physics at
Imperial, has followed Babar Ahmad’s case
since it first began almost eight years ago. Her
late partner worked with him at Imperial, and
she, along with his former manager at Imperial,
visited Babar Ahmad in Long Lartin prison in
April last year. He is held there in a special
unit for terror suspects where most inmates are
facing extradition. Reflecting on the meeting,
she said that he was entirely different from her
expectations of a man imprisoned for years, and
called him an “inspiring” figure. She found him
“very welcoming” as they discussed his prison
conditions, and his growing interest in other
struggles around the world.
At the time of writing, the jury were expected
to have begun deliberations on Friday.
Babar Ahmad assault trial
Ben Scally reports from Southwark Crown Court as jury hears
closing arguments in trial of counter-terrorism police officers
Ben Scally
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

