5
FELIX Friday 03 june 2011
NEWS
You can enjoy a hot meal and a drink
for only £3 (student price)
Monday to Thursday
from 17.30 to 18.30
Monday 6 June - Friday 24 June
Queens Tower Rooms Restaurant
is open in the evenings
www.imperial.ac.uk/eatinganddrinking
Cuts to equipment
funding
Research in engineering and science
disciplines took another blow last week
when it was announced that a second
round of research budget cuts would
be effective on research proposals
submitted after 1st May 2011.
Following recommendations from the
Wakeham review on higher education
funding, funding for equipment costing
above £10,000 will see a 50% cut, with
universities expected to make up the
difference. Equipment costing more
than £121,000 is to be specially rationed
across the country with a special
committee set up to assess proposals.
The alternative that researchers are
expected to take in order to cope with
this change will be to make greater use
of shared equipment. This particularly
applies to larger-scale kit such as
higher-resonance NMR machines (used
by biochemists to acquire structural
information about proteins) and
synchrotron X-ray beamlines (used by
physical chemists to acquire data on
the assembled structures of molecular
systems). In practice it is expected that
increased sharing will involve additional
travelling for many researchers, as well
as decreased flexibility on which work
can be done when.
The Engineering and Physical
Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) is
alone among funding councils in also
implementing the cuts for proposals
submitted before the 1st of May, saying
that the “scale of the reduction in capital
funding” necessiates “immediate action.”
A College spokesperson was confident
Samuel Furse
Increased equipment sharing
encouraged
that Imperial would be able to manage
any difficulties that arise due to the cuts.
“The College is currently undertaking
an audit of equipment to identify where
there may be opportunities to increase
sharing of equipment across departments
and campuses.” The spokesperson added
that Imperial would continue to seek
funding from other sources: “Future
research funding may mean looking
towards new sources of support, and the
College is already quite entrepreneurial
in this area, exploring opportunities
in Europe and further afield, and with
corporate partners”
Prof David McComb from the
Materials department told Nature’s news
blog that increased sharing of equipment
would not always be appropriate:
“For example, if a project requires
access to X-ray diffraction or Raman
spectroscopy facilities on a weekly or
even daily basis, if these facilities are not
available in the principal investigator’s
institution how far is it reasonable to
expect the researcher to travel to conduct
the research?”
TheWakehamreviewisafiveyear-long
programme (2011-2015) during which
time cost savings are made by changes to
budgeting for large equipment.
Christopher Walmsley
“Funding for
equipment costing
above £10,000 will
see a 50% cut”
Decision awaited on
Musharraf talk
College seek advice from Metropolitan police
The College has denied permission for
a high-profile talk by former Pakistani
President Pervez Musharraf on Sunday
5th June, saying that they were not giv-
en enough notice. The talk, which may
go ahead on the following Sunday, was
organised by the Pakistani Society and
was to focus on ‘Unity, Faith and Dis-
cipline’ and the role of young people in
promoting peace.
The Union were informed of the visit
on Monday 30th of June and the Col-
lege Secretary was notified the next
day, less than a week before the event
was planned to begin. Pakistani Society
President Hussain Ali said that the short
notice was due to the fact that they were
only able to recently confirm President
Musharraf’s visit. However, he did ad-
mit that they had been trying to book
him for a number of months, raising
questions about why they did not signal
to the Union or College that they were
attempting to book the former Pakistani
President.
The College is currently awaiting
further security advice from the Met-
ropolitan police regarding President
Musharraf’s visit, and will make a de-
cision about whether the talk could go
ahead on Sunday 12th June on the basis
of that advice. A College spokesperson
said, “The priority in hosting external
speakers is to ensure their safety and the
safety of others on campus.”
It is not known as to whether there
is a specific security threat but it is be-
lieved that there is concern that his vis-
it could result in protests on campus. A
public appearance by President Mush-
arraf in Birmingham last year was met
with protests, however a lecture given
by him at Oxford Union in June 2010
passed without any serious incident.
Pakistani Society President Hussain
Ali called the College’s security con-
cerns “justified” and said that he was
happy that they were continuing to
consider his request. He said President
Musharraf’s visit would “add to the
reputation of the College” and urged the
College to allow students the opportu-
nity to “interact with and learn from one
of the most influential personalities in
the world today.”
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
Heather Jones said that she hoped that
any security issues could be resolved
“as quickly as possible” and that Presi-
dent Musharraf “be allowed to speak at
Imperial.”
Kadhim Shubber
The visit would “add
to the reputation of
the College” say the
organisers

