FELIX
6
In brief
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Thea Cunningham
Kelly Oakes
Charlie Harvey
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 03 june 2011
Back to the Past
X-rays could help us peer back in time to see the
origins of life on Earth. Fossils, the indelible mark
of ancient life, have been a vital piece of evidence
for Darwin’s theory of evolution. Most, however, are
from a time millions of years after life started. The
evidence of life’s origin has been, until this point,
been too small to see.
The new technique, documented in Nature Materi-
als, uses high power X-rays to form images of the
chemical bonds in carbon molecules buried deep in
rock. It can distinguish between graphite, diamond
and other forms of carbon without distorting the
sample. The scientists hope to use this technology
on rocks from Mars and the Moon. Charlie Harvey
Negative emotional memories can be sup-
pressed in the long-term with the help of drugs
that regulate stress hormones, new research
has shown. The findings, published in the
Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabo-
lism, could lead to new treatments for sufferers
of post traumatic stress disorders (PTSD).
Stress hormones such as cortisol are known
to modulate memory retrieval. Both high and
low levels of cortisol impair emotional mem-
ory retrieval. A collaboration between Lehigh
University and McGill University have tested
the effects of Metyrapone – a drug that inhibits
cortisol secretion – on memory retrieval. The
researchers tested 33 men, aged between 18
and 35, in an experiment based on three ses-
sions.
In the first session (incidental learning), the
participants were shown a computer-based
series of slides depicting a story with neutral
and emotional phases. A few hours later par-
ticipants were asked to recall this information.
Saliva samples of the participants were taken
to find the cortisol levels at different times.
In the second session (retrieval phase), the
same procedure was applied with the partici-
pants divided in three groups. One group re-
ceived a single dose of the drug, one group had
a double dose and the third were given a pla-
cebo. The experiments tested memory recall at
the time when cortisol levels were expected to
be at their lowest value.
The third session (delayed recall) involved
the same procedure without the administration
of the drug or the placebo.
The scientists found that there was a signifi-
cant decrease in cortisol values when a double
dose of Metyrapone was taken.
The double dose group also recalled sig-
nificantly less emotional information than the
placebo group at both retrieval and delayed re-
call phases, whereas there was little difference
between the single and double dose groups.
Overall, there was no loss of neutral infor-
mation but there was an effect on emotional
memory retrieval.
“Our findings may help people deal with
traumatic events by offering them the opportu-
nity to ‘write-over’ the emotional part of their
memories during therapy,” said lead author
Marie-France Marin.
The experimental conditions introduce some
limitations to the validity of the results ob-
tained. Firstly, only men were tested on and
hence one cannot conclude the effects Me-
tyrapone may have on women. Secondly, the
drug was tested on perfectly healthy men so
it may not have the same effect on patients
suffering from PTSD or any other medical
condition for which the drug may actually
be required. Thirdly it is difficult to conclude
whether the effects seen are due to the pres-
ence of Metyrapone or low levels of cortisol.
Eternal sunshine for the stressful mind
Anum Niaz
HIV patients who take antiretroviral therapy
(ART) early enough not only protect them-
selves but also their partners, new research has
shown.
The finding is the first from a major rand-
omized clinical trial to indicate that treating an
HIV-infected person can make them less conta-
gious, as well as keep them healthy.
The study, which spanned nine countries, in-
volved more than 1,700 couples, in which one
partner was HIV-positive and the other was not.
Each couple was randomly assigned to one of
two study groups by researchers at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, US.
In the first group, the partner with HIV be-
gan receiving antiretroviral drugs as soon as
they enrolled in the study. In the second group,
the infected partner started antiretroviral treat-
ment once their CD4+ count – a key measure
of immune system health – fell to between 200
and 250 cells/mm3
, or when they developed an
AIDS-related illness.
According to the results, 27 previously unin-
fected partners in the second group contracted
HIV from their partner. But in the first group,
only one such case of new HIV infection oc-
curred. This means that starting ART earlier led
to a 96% reduction in HIV transmission within
relationships.
UK HIV charities have given a cautious wel-
come to the news. Sarah Radcliffe, a policy
officer at the National Aids Trust (NAT) said
the findings backed up anecdotal evidence. She
added: “These results are very exciting. Back
in 2008, the Swiss Federal Commission for
HIV/AIDS published a statement saying that
patients on effective ART who have no other
sexually transmitted infections are sexually
non-infectious. This is the first time we have an
experiment which backs this up. The fact that it
finished early is very significant and it is a very
robust piece of research.”
AVERT spokesperson Rachel King described
the research as “compelling” but continued:
“Scaling up testing to improve knowledge of
HIV status and increasing treatment coverage
will be crucial to gaining the public health bene-
fits of treatment as prevention.” Universal access
to treatment was still the main goal, she added.
The Terrence Higgins Trust, however, sug-
gested that the research could have more im-
pact in the developing world than in Britain.
Blake Smith, information officer at the trust,
said: “With up to one in four people with HIV
being undiagnosed in the UK, the people who
are likely to be most infectious are not under
care and so would not receive treatment.”
Ben Jones
Partners protected from early HIV drugs
7 – 12 June 2011
“Explore wonderful things, take your mind to new
places or simply have a great night out”. From stem
cells to the science of plasma, the festival explores
a whole universe of different ideas and theories.
Cheltenham Science Festival
Prevention is better than cure – early treatment prevents HIV spreading to others
Don’t cry, there are drugs to help you forget just how bad that film actually was
Avian Attraction
When it comes to choosing a mate, female spar-
rows have shown they’re anything but bird-brained.
According to new research, the feathered females
don’t simply pick the most physically attractive, but
instead assess the quality of their potential suitor’s
inner values.
It all comes down to a cluster of genes that play
a role in immunity, called the major histocompatibil-
ity complex (MHC). Researchers from the University
of Veterinary Medicine in Vienna examined prefer-
ences for partners in house sparrows by offering a
female sparrow a choice of three different males.
They found females with a low number of MHC al-
leles were most attracted to males carrying a high
number of such alleles, suggesting females can
“count” the number of MHC alleles on offer from
individual males. The evidence is the first to sug-
gest birds’ mating preferences are influenced by the
MHC. Thea Cunningham

