FELIX 7
SCIENCE
Friday 03 june 2011
The euphoria experienced from taking
heroin is caused by a molecule known
as 6-monoacetylmorphine (6-MAM) and
not morphine as previously thought, says
a new study carried out by the Depart-
ment of DrugAbuse Research at the Nor-
wegian Institute of Public Health. This
new understanding of how heroin works
could have a profound effect on how we
go about managing heroin addiction.
How heroin works has always been
a mystery. It is one of the most addic-
tive drugs we know and yet when tested
on brain cells directly it has very lit-
tle effect. Previously, scientists have
suggested that heroin was transported
to the brain and then metabolised into
morphine, meaning that heroin addic-
tion was therefore a form of morphine
addiction. However, using pharmacoki-
netic modelling this new research has
found that, once injected, heroin is con-
verted rapidly to 6-MAM in the blood.
This means that very little heroin actu-
ally reaches the brain as it is metabo-
lised too quickly. 6-MAM is then able
to cross the blood-brain barrier where it
can bind to µ-opoid receptors creating
the rush. Some of the 6-MAM is further
converted to morphine. However, this
only gives a supplementary effect.
The team is now trying to verify that
the conversion of heroin in humans is
as quick and extensive as in mice, and
whether the metabolism is the same
through different ways of administering
heroin – intravenous versus smoking,
for example. This research could lead to
a new method of treating heroin addic-
tion. Vaccines against heroin previously
failed because it was metabolised in the
blood too quickly. This study suggests
that vaccines against 6-MAM could be
made in order to prevent or cure addic-
tion in the future.
Mystery molecule found for heroin high
Sean Harbison
Can’t stand me now? Just wait till I get out of prison
I,SCIENCE
THE SCIENCE MAGAZINE OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE
next issue out
24TH JUNE
FIND I, SCIENCE AT ALL NORMAL FELIX
DISTRIBUTION POINTS
A FELIXPublication
New research could
help prevent addiction

