FELIX
8
Tips & Hacks
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 03 june 2011
O2 has best mobile broadband
says Ofcom
Looking to switch mobile connections and can’t go
without a regular dose of Facebook and Twitter? Of-
com’s latest report would suggest that you head to
your nearest O2
store. The company came out on top
in a study of major mobile providers in the UK, load-
ing pages faster than any of 3, Vodafone, Orange
or T-Mobile. The latter two, part of the ‘Everything
Everywhere’ partnership, performed the worst in the
study with speeds that were roughly half that of O2
.
The research might not mean much in London how-
ever, as it was carried out throughout the UK – even
‘in the M62 corridor between Manchester and Liver-
pool’, where it is safe to assume there are few Im-
perial students during term time. With smartphone
uptake on the rise throughout the UK, O2
might just
be as ‘better, connected’ as they claim.
Skype users might want to keep an eye out when in-
stalling updates on their system after users noticed
that the application was attempting to foist software
from another company on them. Skype was found
requesting access to an application called ‘easybits-
go.exe’, produced by EasyBits, a company specialis-
ing in game apps. While not essentially malware, the
software was pushed to user computers without their
permission. Skype then confirmed that the program
‘neither installs nor un-installs correctly’, a remark-
able feat in this modern age. The update has been
disabled so there’s no need to worry about picking it
up now, but if you unquestioningly accepted a third-
party update request on Windows over the past few
days you may want to double-check your system. A
helpful guide on locating and removing the software
can be found at http://bit.ly/m31XqC
Skype pushes unwanted software
to users
While Android and iOS have become increas-
ingly popular and must-have platforms, Sam-
sung has an alternative to suggest: the Bada
ecosystem. In June 2010, Bada-based Sam-
sung Apps were launched in 118 countries,
with over a hundred million downloads and
more than 13,000 applications available by
March 2011.
Based on these facts, Dr. Manfred Borten-
schlager, Engineering Manager of Samsung
Electronics, noted in a lecture given at the
Department of Computing on the 23th of May
that “Bada is one of the fastest growing eco-
systems. It can be seen as a threat or as an op-
portunity that needs to be taken into account”.
The vision behind Bada is a “Smartphone
for Everyone”; its main goal is to extend the
smartphone market by providing a lower-price
segment for smartphones. In other words, Ba-
da’s mission is not to compete with other exist-
ing smartphone platforms but turn Samsung’s
conventional customers into smartphone users
by providing cost-effective smartphones.
Bada’s feature-rich technical platform is
composed of various services abstracted into
four layers to simplify things, starting from the
kernel (or nucleus) in the lower level and fi-
nally reaching the framework layer which the
developer uses directly. Developers need not
fully understand the lower levels, but can sim-
ply take advantage of the available services in
the framework layer.
Specifically, there is support for 3D graph-
ics, multi-touch and various sensors, which
should enable you to create exciting and ad-
venturous games.
You are also given direct access to external
social networks, such as Facebook and Twit-
ter, as well as the opportunity to enable com-
mercial transactions in applications, such as
trading game items and selling music, so de-
velopers can provide free applications that are
profitable by internal sales.
The best place to get started with your devel-
opment is the Bada Developer site. There you
can find anything you need to start developing
apps almost for free, including online lectures,
sample code and useful blogs. A useful de-
velopment guide is the ‘Introduction to Bada’
book, available to download free of charge on
their website. It contains various recipes (code
segments) you can learn from and then extend
if you wish.
Everyone interested in application develop-
ment is encouraged by Samsung to share their
ideas and implementation skills. As part of
their ‘Device Loan Program’ if you are able to
sell your app idea to them, they promise to pro-
vide you with a Bada device to develop it on.
In addition, the Bada Student Developer
Challenge which kicks off in September 2011,
gives you the chance to promote any cool app
ideas you might have, competing with the best
student coders of 10 leading universities in a
48-hour codeathon. All qualifying applications
resulting from the competition will be awarded
with free promotion on the Samsung App Store
plus a Bada phone.
Dr. Manfred also pointed out that everyone
who works on an application can make money
from it by directly selling it, providing adver-
tisements through it or by selling virtual goods
using it.
This is not only for money though; it will be
a unique experience that will look wonderful
on a CV and of course will give you fame if
you win!
Bada: make things happen!
Are you IPv6
ready yet?
On 8th June the college will participate in the
‘World IPv6 Day’ event.
This is a twenty-four hour global test win-
dow organised by the Internet Society to assist
with preparation for the impending exhaustion
of the world’s available IP addresses – the net-
work addresses used by computers and other
devices for communication over the internet.
The solution to the address problem is the
IPv6 network protocol which will gradually
replace IP. On the day participants will create
conditions that expose internet users to IPv6
on a larger scale than ever before. This will
be done by publishing IPv6 addresses for web
servers alongside their existing IP addresses.
Along with the likes of Google, Facebook,
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Yahoo and many universities, Imperial will do
this for several of its websites.
The aim of the exercise is to reveal problems
that may occur as IPv6 is increasingly used in
earnest, and also motivate internet infrastruc-
ture vendors to make their products ‘future
ready’. In the run-up to 8th June, Imperial ICT
will make relevant information available at:
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/ict/ipv6day
There you can read about how you might
be affected on the day, the problems that may
occur and how to make a very simple test in
advance to see if you are likely to encounter
any issues.
Imperial College is
taking part in IPv6
‘test-flight’; make sure
you aren’t left behind
Develop with Samsung to make those app ideas a reality

