book: the riders - tim
WmtOritabe magnet
| Tim Winton is an
lAustralian, but this
doesn't stop him won-
derfully weaving togeth-
er the story of Fred
Scully and his odyssey
across Europe in search
of his beautiful wife
lipat Dana of X-Files
|fame!), who has myste-
! riously disappeared.
Fred has moved to Ireland and is renovating
what is to be the new family home, while his
wife sells up the assets in Australia. At the
appointed hour only his daughter Billie turns up
at the airport, and the search for his wife begins.
This search takes the unlikely pair through
Greece, France, Amsterdam and situations
evoked breathtakingly by Winton's excellent
writing.
"Maybe old Pete-the-Post wasright- you never
really knew anybody, not even those you loved.
People have shadows, secrets". The main themes
of this book revolve around how well you really
know people - your wife or yourself. We see
paranoia and recklessness in Fred Scully as the
tumult of possibilities flows through his mind.
You feel sorry for him, angry at him and eventu-
ally relieved when the brilliantly thought out
ending appears. Alongside Fred, his seven-year-
old daughter suffers horribly but has the stronger
will, dragging her father up just at the moment
he looks likely to stumble. "Do you think some-
one can love too much?" she asks at one point;
throughout the book she is the only one whose
love is constantly pure.
The book screams 'Booker Prize shortlisted'
on the front cover, promising much but deliver-
ing more. It's a very thought-provoking thriller
and with the wonderful mental images it con-
jures up, that old cliche 'unputdownable' is fully
justified. Whether you want contemporary fic-
tion at its absolute pinnacle or just a damn good
read, £5.99 is a small price to pay for this book. -
"•:
:
::
M
:
.-:
- :
•;
;;:;J;cs W?
^:
;lJ
-^?
J?;
s i m o n baker
It has not been a particularly good week or two
for women in politics. The First Lady of
America, being an accomplished lawyer, is about
to embark on a busman's holiday by appearing
before a federal grand jury over the Whitewater
affair. Hie real problem is that because of this
and other legal problems, Bill Clinton may be
declared bankrupt, which could prove a tad
tricky. Were it to happen over here, it would
mean instant loss of parliamentary seat, but I
don't know what the situation is Stateside. Call
me cruel, but as someone who is not an enor-
mous fan of the President and much less so of his
wife, I do find it all very funny.
In terms of amusement however, this
American debacle is but an episode of Gag Tag
compared to the mess that Harriet Harman has
created for Tony Blair. The Shadow health
spokesman, not simply a Labour MP but one
who is supposed to take collective responsibility
for party policy (now there's a novel idea, Tony),
seesfitto exercise a choice that she and her party
are seeking to prevent others from making. If
that is not hypocrisy, then I demand a refund on
my dictionary. I'm afraid that such
double standards are not acceptable,
and to use the defence that it is
wrong of Conservative and dissent-
ing Labour MPs to drag the educa-
tion of her son into the political arena
is laughable, since she is responsible
for such a situation. Don't get me
wrong, I am not opposed to her exer-
cising the choice to send him where
she and her husband want. That is
one of the great educational reforms
of recent times. What I cannot
accept is her continued opposition to
a system that she has given her blessing to by her
actions. She should resign, although I suspect
that the enormous pressure that Tony Blair has
brought to bear on his parliamentary party
means she will probably survive. This Stalinist
suppression of dissent driven, I dare say, by chief
spin doctor Peter Mandelson, is not a happy
reflection on an opposition party that I and many
others may not have agreed with, but whose
integrity we once respected.
I think I ought to stick closer to home.
Unfortunately, that means that the subject of the
BMS building is unavoidable. We hear that there
is a little problem with routine waste at the site,
such as mercury and asbestos. Routine waste! I'd
like to know their definition of dangerous waste.
Weapons grade plutonium, perchance? The
smallpox virus? Not only is mercury very toxic,
but it is also very expensive to get rid of safely. If
these blokes are so blase about toxic waste, they
might like to come and clean out my fridge. Still,
at least the boys from STOIC were spared from
the perils by being chucked off the site. As any
3rd year chemist trying to listen to the pearls of
wisdom spilling forth from our lecturers will tell
you, work has started in earnest, and yet we see
that planning permission still hasn't
been granted. As my dear old mum
said, it'll end in tears.
Well, we had another double roll-
over jackpot. The huge sum of
money, some say, is capable of
wreaking havoc on the lives of the
poor. It's not wreaked havoc on my
life. Not even a tenner since it start-
ed. Even with Anthea Turner on
holiday, I still can't win. It could be
you, so why not me?
h
Li

