I f f l i p
If Tlie Shaman-.think Ebeneezer's good/tiicy want to have a look at what n^al Shamans are up to. In recent years
indigenous healers and American pharmacologists have been collaborating in research which has led to the devel-
opment of new .drugs - drugs that may prove iiser||in the treatment of a range of diseases including AIDS.
Medicinal practices employed by tra-
ditional healers have long been
regarded with scepticism by many
Western practitioners but research by ethnob-
otanists - scientists who study the botanical
knowledge of indigenous, or other tradi-
tional communities - suggests that there
is much to be taken seriously within less
orthodox medical systems. Indeed, eth-
nobotanists have shown that many mod- j
em therapeutics were originally discov-
ered during the systematic evaluation of
medicinal agents used by non-industrial
societies. For example, the pain killers
morphine and cocaine, the heart drug
digoxin, and the anti-leukemic agents vin-
blastine and vincristine have all been discov-
ered this way. Most recently, researchers from
AJDS-conscious America have discovered a
number of novel compounds which exhibit par-
ticularly potent anti-viral activity.
Paul Cox, is an ethnobotanist based at the
Brigham Young University in Utah, US. Having
spent his undergraduate years in Samoa, he con-
tinued his studies at postgraduate level, looking
at the ways in which Samoan people used and
managed the rain forest plants of their South
Pacific island. Since that time (the late 1970's),
Cox and his co-workers have examined the
pharmacological activity of many Samoan medi-
cinal plants, one of which demonstrates strong
activity against the human immunodeficiency
vims HIV-1.
Sponsored by the US National Cancer
Institute (NCI), who have strong interests in
both anti-cancer and anti-HIVtherapeutics, Cox
began his latest search by concentrating on
Samoan plants used in the treatment of viral dis-
eases. Initially, plants of interest were collected in
Samoa, and sent to the NCI laboratories for
pharmacological analysis. Any species showing
significant anti-viral activity could then be inves-
tigated further, using a
process known as
%J v activity-directed
£"S fractionation,
if***? J*^ £*s where crude
m> fC m%% 0 P l a
" t e X t r a C t S
C • \ | l P are increas-
e's j o d 1
y i i n g l y
ui n l i e c l
<
.2V.JL as only active
fractions are retained for further purification. In
this way, one plant, Homalanthus nutans, has
been identified as a source of a powerful anti-
HIV compound. Used in Samoan medi-
cine in the treatment of the viral disease
yellow fever, Homalanthus nutans has
been found to contain the novel
anti-viral agent prostratin which
!
seems likely to be taken into
clinical trials in the near
future.
Encouraged by the suc-
cess of Cox and other
ethnobotanists, sever-
al pharmaceutical
companies have
r begun to show
increasing
J interest
in an
mm urn
Foxglove ("Digitalis Purpurea} has
been used in the treatment of heart
disease since the formal discovery
of its biological activity in 1775.
The eighteenth century physician
William Withering initiated
research into this powerful drug
which is still in common use
amongst heart sufferers throughout
the Western world.
ethno-directed
approach to
drug
prospect
ing. Indeed, in
1990, one com-
pany, the San-
Francisco-based
Shaman
Pharmaceuticals, was established with the spe-
cific aim of using an ethnobotanical approach to
drug discovery. Using a multidisciplinary team
which includes medics, natural product
chemists and ethnobotanists, this approach has
so far resulted in the development of two new
products which are already in clinical trials:
Provir™, an oral product for the treatment of
respiratory viral infections, and Virend™, a top-
ical anti-viral product for the treatment of her-
pes. Shaman also has continuing programmes
targeted at identifying novel compounds for use
against fungal infections. So far two antifungal
candidates have been discovered, while investi-
gations into native treatments for diabetes
have also generated a number of promis-
. ing leads.
However, while the indications
from ethnobotanists are encour-
aging, the news is not all good.
The identification of plants
which yield valuable thera-
peutic agents, may well lead
to serious problems of over-
harvesting. In addition, fur-
ther problems associated
with the exploitation of tradi-
tional communities are likely to
occur where less scrupulous
researchers are involved. Providing
solutions to these problems will not be
easy, requiring the development of both
legal mechanisms and ethical codes, to pro-
tect traditional peoples' knowledge and
their natural resources. Fortunately, ethnob-
otanists in the UK, the US and elsewhere,
are currently working to provide effective
solutions. If they succeed, the global popu-
lation may gain from the long-term benefits
of traditional medicine, and other ethnob-
otanical knowledge.
Cath Cotton

