ELECTION SPECIAL FELIX FRIDAY 2 ND FEBRUARY 1 9 9 6 . TWENTY-ONE
SAB BAT I C A L
E L E O T I O N S
OK, Listen up! If you want to become an ICU Sabbatical then follow these
nstructions: Read the job descriptions on this page. Then sign the nomination
papers which will be displayed on the ICU noticeboard, opposite the Union
office, from Monday 5th Feb - Friday 16th Feb. You'll need one person to
nominate you and twenty others to second you. Then comes the hard part -
you have to convince people to vote for you!
M i x E d i t o r &
Print Unit Manager
For some reason, this sabbatical position ended up as two jobs instead of one,
but since I reckon I get to have a lot more fun than the other three, perhaps
it's worth not being able to do anything else with your life.
The print unit manager bit involves running the Union's in-house printing
facilities. That means being responsible for a trading outlet with a fairly size-
able turnover: working with ICU's professional printer, you do everything from
VAT returns to rolling up your sleeves and working with greasy bits of equip-
ment (!). Oh, and you get to do lots of photocopying as well.
Contrary to what many seem to think, editing Felix does not mean you
write the entire paper: it's about managing a team of people for whom Felix is
their big extra-curricular activity, so you have to be prepared to 'work' most
weekday evenings. More than anything else, you need to be a person who can
inspire and encourage as many people as possible to contribute, because
you're certainly not going to have time to do it all yourself. And quite frankly,
it would be a whole lot worse if you did. There's no reason at all why you should
be currently involved in Felix, but a good knowledge of desk-top publishing (we
use QuarkXPress) is essential.
So somehow you get an issue out every Friday (which is more often than
practically any other student newspaper in the country, so don't underestimate
the size of the task). And you get a unreasonable amount of complaints and
criticism for it, and probably feel you're doing a thoroughly demoralising thank-
less task. But there's something quite satisfying about returning an hour later
to that pile of 600 newspapers you left out, to discover that there are none
left. Rachel Walters
D e p u t y P r e s i d e n t
(Clubs & Societies)
Are you going to be the lucky (?) one? If you are thinking of something chal-
lenging to do for the next 13 months then have you thought about being a sab-
batical? Deputy President (C&S) is a challenging and fulfilling role to ake up in
the Union. If elected, you will be responsible for the following:
Organising BUSA sports; organising the Freshers' Fair; representing sports
and societies to Colleg, ULU, and other outside organisations; sorting out
insurance payments; temporary membership; overseeing all the Clubs &
Societies; internal room bookings; Union keys; notice boards and poster regu-
lations; e-mail accounts; WWW pages.
You will also have to attend: Disciplinary meetings, Exec, Council, Sub-
Committee meetings, ULU sports meetings, Refectory Services and Bookstore
meetings, Union Finance Committee, College Athletics Committee, South
Kensington Users Group, BUSA meetings, College Disciplinary meetings, ULU
GUC, BUSA conferences, ULU training and'ICU training (phew!).
On top of that you will be part of a team who look after the day to day
management of the Union. Teamwork is essential in this job if your year in the
Union is going to be successful. You will find yourself mucking in around the
office, helping out with carnivals, reception and helping in a multitude of other
incidents.
So now you know what goes into the job, why don't you run in the elec-
tions and have an interesting and stressful year. Tim Townend
P r e s i d e n t
Why on earth would anyone in their right mind want to do this job? It's highly
stressful, poorly paid, the hours are long and you will exist in a state of per-
manent confusion for about 13 months. On the other hand, it's great fun, you
get to meet a huge range of people and it's an experience I wouldn't have
missed for the world.
As President you represent students to College and to the outside world.
This involves sitting on committees arguing the student case and pressing for
the best possible facilities for ICU. These committees total about 40 within
College, ICU and ULU, with unlimited numbers of outside committees and
working parties. This means that one of the most important aspects of the job
is the ability to be able to work with staff and students from College and a huge
range of other institutions.
The President is also responsible for everything that goes on in the Union,
although much of this is delegated to the two Deputy Presidents. This ranges
from discipline and staffing to running the elections. Much of the job involves
academic affairs and welfare, and students and staff may ask you to raise
issues at various levels, or just come to you for advice and guidance. You will
often be called in to help with cases at University level, and could find yourself
either representing one of our students at an Academic Tribunal, or sat on the
other side of the table on the judicial panel.
We've tried hard to improve links with other student unions this year,
especially those within ULU. The support which Sabbs in ULU give each other
has been invaluable to me. You need to work with them to understand that
there are a far wider range of issues for students than those which may appear
in your year here and that we all need to work together to tackle them. Some
of the most interesting and important things I've done this year have been with
groups from institutions all over the country.
As you may have guessed by now, one of the worst points about this job
is every now and then, having to explain to people what exactly it is you do.
I'm still not entirely sure, but if you are interested in running, please, please
come and see me with any questions. The things I've mentioned above are
really just the tip of the iceberg, and although there are many things you have
to do the job is what you make it. Running last year was probably the best deci-
sion I've ever made - it's a chance you'll never get again, so don't be scared.
Sarah White
D e p u t y P r e s i d e n t
(Finance & Services!
So, you want to be a Sabb? Have you seen your psychiatrist about this? Well,
while (s)he's working out the cause of the problem, I might as well tell you
what you'd be letting yourself in for.
Being DP(F&S) is a bit like climbing a steep, muddy slope with your legs
tied together. It's all about high finance, top-level decision making, teamwork,
organisation, and ritual abuse (verbal, that is).
You get to be held responsible for the well-being of two million quid. You
get to organise the Union Finance Committee, where everyone shouts at each
other in a desperate bid to get money. This is your chance to sort out clubs'
& societies' finance questions for them, and authorise every bit of expenditure
over £500.
The bars, catering, entertainments and bookstore will be your babies to
oversee through the Refectory Services, Entertainments and Bookstore
Committees, all of which you will organise and run. A fleet of minibuses, games
machines and food machines will be your footstool.
The many meetings you end up attending, far too numerous to list here,
will leave you with a pain in the diodes down your left side. You will find your-
self thrust to the very forefront of the Union's interaction with college as you
represent the students as part of the sabbatical team. Many a time you will
land up sitting in a hall of residence grilling candidates for the job of warden
or subwarden in the accommodation side of your work.
But it is the teamwork within the sabbatical group that will thrill you and
tease you the most. You will have to work as a highly organised trio to take the
Union one step closer to the new millennium.
Or something like that. Matt Crompton

