Special Edition for Social Clubs' Week 2 February 1996
O u t Here
M a t t h e w P a r r i s :
T h e V i s i t , T h e
A r t i c l e , T h e T r u t h
A recent train of events which started with
a visit to a student society, was followed by an
article in The Times and finally lead to an open
letter in The Reporter, the staff newspaper of
Imperial College. What was this about? It
concerned the question of whether scientists are
open-minded or conformist.
Matthew Parris came to Imperial on
November 21 as a guest of Imperial Queers - the
lesbian, gay and bisexual society here at Imperial.
Parris had been an MP in the early eighties, and
then moved into writing and broadcasting. He
had come to tell IQ how it was being a gay man
in the Conservative Party, and he went to tell of
how he "came out" as gay during a speech to the
House.
He asked people at the meeting if a college
consisting only of scientists could be more
prejudiced than one with arts students, and he
the question was answered in no uncertain terms.
Yes - came the reply, some students were
particularly narrow minded. Parris was surprised
at this and went on to wonder why this was. The
meeting concluded that the modern study of
science, forces a narrow outlook, where it is
forbidden to question the fundamentals of the
field.
Parris wondered about these questions some
more and wrote them down, with his answers in
his column in The Times. Under the headline
"Learning science ought to foster openness, but
instead it seems to result in narrow mindedness".
He wrote "The role of science in mankind's
struggle throughout history against myth and
prejudice is disgraceful." and went on to describe
the absence of "sceptical scientific heads above
the parapet".
The first issue of The Reporter in 1996 carried
an open letter from Professor Mino Green
Matthew Parris
complaining that Parris' choice ofnarrow minded
scientific examples did not prove his argument.
Green considered Thomas Huxley with Darwin
and MIT with McCarthy as examples of open
scientific minds. He concluded "Articles like your
are totally unhelpful, even damaging, and I
would ask you to rethink and then rewrite what
you have said."
Commenting on the letter Parris replied "In
the words of Pilate, I have said what I have said."
He went on to comment that the Professor's last
paragraph was a good example of the attitudes to
which he referred in The Times.
Martin Morris, who was at the original
meeting with Matthew Parris remarked "He came
along with an open mind but his comments were
met by closed ones. Perhaps us scientists should
consider his words more carefully?"
A w a r e n e s s o f I s s u e s " A t A l l T i m e H i g h "
Imperial College Union President Sarah
White said last Monday that she was delighted to
see gay issues being put on the agenda at
Imperial.
"It is obvious that prejudice is slowly disap-
pearing - which is great news, and for that reason
it is becoming easier to be open about oneself here
a t l C "
Members of IQ - Imperial Queers - agreed
with Sarah. Alvin Renton said "Coming out
can be a difficult process which involves looking
at yourself very closely. Now that there are more
open gay men and lesbians on television, people
coming out can see that they are not alone and
that they have nothing to be ashamed of. This
improves chances of meeting other gay people at
places like Imperial.
Commenting, Ashley Lumsden, President
of IQ said "The changing atmosphere on campus
is only due to the behaviour of the staff and
students here.
"We should be proud of the efforts being
made that are transforming life, for all people.
Out Here is part of the process making this
change."
Comment - centre pages
T h i n k P i n k
Why is Out Here on pink coloured
paper? This is a question that is easily an-
swered. Rnk is a colour that has been associ-
ated with gay men since the war. It was Nazi
Germany that needed to label people physi-
cally and as they chose the green star for
Jewish people, so they choose the inverted
pink triangle for homosexuals.
This choice might seem rather negative,
but infact,for many gay men and women it is
a measure of pride to be able to say "This is
what I am" and by using pink triangles they are
saying that beinggay is no reason for shame or
oppression.
When people here at Imperial wanted to
name their lesbian, gay and bisexual society,
they chose the name Imperial Queers for
similar reasons. Whilst some see "queer" as
an insult, it is a sign of strength to be able to
say "Yes - this is what we are."
L a b e l l i n g P e o p l e ?
Do you recognise gay people here at
Imperial? Fashion-conscious, quiche-eating
men? Body-building, car-mending women?
These are obvious signs that some people use
to recognise gay men and women.
Out Here gives you a chance to develop
your own understanding of what it is like to be
gay at Imperial. Our centre pages will put you
in the picture about gay men and women. We
all know gay people around us even if we
don't realise it - yet!
F i g h t i n g P r e j u d i c e :
C o n s o c m e e t s IQ
In a joint meeting earlier this week, IQ
and Imperial College's Conservative Soci-
ety, Consoc, debated the subject of homo-
phobia.
The event, part of the Social Clubs'
Week, was the idea of Consoc's Deputy
Chair Geoff Boon who commented "We
believe the nineties will consign homopho-
bia to the prejudicial dustbin. I hope these
discussions between Consoc and IQ will
promote tolerance amongst members and
other students at IC." IQ's President Ashley
Lumsden spoke at the meeting saying that
people must work to end prejudice.
"Prejudice affects many people in com-
plicated ways, but only by talking about our
fears can we confront it. We must confront
those who are homophobic in their views
with intelligence and information."
Inside: W h y IC needs IQ - 2 Pubs and C l u b s - 4 D i r e c t o r y of L o n d o n C o n t a c t s - 4

