AN OPEN LETTER
TO A FRIEND
I always used to be slightly innocent on some matters, homophobia being
one of them. I was aware that it existed and I was aware that people had
been very badly hurt by it, but never had I been exposed to it. I think
part of the problem was that I had been in the closet about my sexuality
throughout school and at university until a few months ago. Also, my
friends, when I did decide to plunge into the deep unknown and come
out, were very supportive, it didn't bother them at all and neither did it
bother my family. I considered myself very fortunate but I felt I needed
the experience of coming across a homophobe.
That is why I have to thank you, you made me realise what people can
be like. It is for that reason that I have decided to write this open letter
to "Felix" as I want to discuss further some of the points you raised. Of
course there's always the possibility you were winding me up, but I think
not I think the first statement I will have to quote because otherwise I
feel that I can't give it the passion and eloquence that it deserves, you
said "lesbians are OK as long as I don't know any of them but gay men
should be shot." Ah what a wonderful statement that is, yes after being a
lesbian all my life and you having known meforpart of that life, I am
really going to change just like that because I told you that I was gay.
As for your second statement that gay men should be shot, I am
surprised that one so dedicated to the "true nature" as yourself would
need to rely on a gun of all things, I agree, what could be more natural?!
You did however raise another very valid point, I am afraid I would do it
justice if I didn't quote again, "Homosexuality is unnatural... I only like
the 'true nature'." What may I ask is the true nature? Another of my
friends interjected at this point saying that if we were only concerned
with 'true nature' then only trees and things that didn't destroy
themselves would be here, well, I mean, how ignorant can you get? Much
better to merely criticises something that happens in many aspects of
animal life, not just human and to call it unnatural. After all it was a
choice we made wasn't it!
I once again thank you for trying to guide me to the "right" path of
heterosexuality, I do however find it unfortunate that you will probably
not read this as it would frighten you too much even to be caught
looking at part of this "homosexual pull-out section".
Perhaps I'll see you around, or will you avoid me because you now view
me as a shaved headed, dyke T-shirt wearing, lesbian with attitude?
^leanwhile, I will continue viewing myself as I am and you as a prat.
HIV: Facts From Fiction
Nigel Russell is involved in KY Babies - Camden and Islington
Health Authority's Peer Education Project. Out Here asked
him to answer some common questions about HIV and AIDS
What is H I V ? Human which, is an enemy organism which
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) acts must infect a body cell to multiply,
on the body's own defensive or HIV is a human virus which is weak
immune cells. Following infection and cannot survive long outside the
with the virus there is a variable body fluids in which it is found. HIV
period during which the body tries canonlybetransmittedfromperson
to control it. Many HIV positive to person under specific conditions,
people remain healthy for AIDS, of course, cannot
long periods, some be transmitted, it is a
experience a variety of HIV does not diagnosed illness and not
unpleasant symptomsbut ». . . a virus.
become well again. In discriminate Which body fluids
most cases, however, the contain HIV? HIV is
virus eventually damages found in semen, blood
the immune system seriously and and vaginal secretions in sufficient
leaves people living with H I V quantity and quality to risk
vulnerable to specific, sometimes infection. It cannot be transmitted
life threatening, infections. This is by saliva, urine or faeces as these are
commonly known as an AIDS harsh and hostile environments for
diagnosis (Acquired Immune the virus.
Deficiency Syndrome). What is Safer Sex? Three
What is a Virus? A microbe continued over
^ff At the age of 90, M T is regarded as the "elder
statesman of British music". A pacifist, he
'Michael wrote "A Child of our Time" a year after he
was imprisoned in 1943. He has several
ltppett symphonies and many operas to his name.
What is Coming Out?
Out Here asked Matt Williams and Ashley Tapp what
it meant for them to come out and what life has been
like for them at Imperial.
Matt Williams writes Ashley Tapp writes
I started studying at this Univer- When I talk to people about my
sity two years ago, ready to join sexuality everybody always asks
some sort of Lesbian and Gay Soci- me "When did you first realise?" or
ety. To my complete dismay, there "How did you know?" I've always
was no such society, so I started two known really but I only realised
more years of my life as a closet case. what it meant when I grew up at
Life here was quite a about twelve or thirteen. I
nightmare, but it was ^y- y y knew it was something I
not totally unbearable. I ' couldn't talk to anybody
enjoyed London to the nOW Only be about and from jokes I had
full, and I had my col- described 3S heard and what people said
lege work to fall back amazinp about "gays" or "queers" that
on. I had really good it was something I was sup-
friends, but I couldn't posed to keep to myself. It is
share all my life with them, which difficult to describe the isolation I
made me feel very lonely and de- felt during those years as I tried my
pressed . best to be straight, getting a girl-
Then, at the start of last year, IQ friend and doing macho sports. I
started up. The fact that there were knew that I wasn't being true to
other gay people here, at Imperial myself.
College, gave me a lot of confi- University gave me the oppor-
dence. A t that time I was far too tunity to change: to put the past
nervous to join up, but by the end behind and rediscover mysetf. My
of my second year I decided that I first move was to go to a coming
was going to come out as gay. I out group which" I saw advertised
chose to start doing this by going to in the Time Out Student Guide,
the first IQ meeting of my final year, I'm so glad I went. I met some good
last term. friends who were going through
Now I have been out for four exactly the same thing as me.
months and, while not a long pe- It is one
riod of time, my life can now only be It makes a thing to come
described as amazing! All my friends lot more out to yourself
of previous years have been great to sense to be a n o t
^ e r
me. They have all totally accepted to come out to
me as gay. And I have had no Open friends and
adverse reactions whatsoever. family. Fear of
I have also now got quite a few rejection and emotional black mail
really close gay friends. Actually all complicate the issue. Coming
knowing other gay people is a great out may hurt some people like the
relief. Regardless of the impression family and close friends, but when
you might get, not all gay people are you think of the damage that can
camp, most are very normal and be caused by hiding your sexuality
really lovely. and the enormous emotional bur-
I also found several "coming out" den you take upon yourself, it
groups very useful: they gave me an seems to make a lot more sense to
opportunity to discuss my fears and be open.
worries. I went to New Beginnings Coming out at Imperial has its
and Turning Point (see Directory pros and cons. London is Britain's
for details) and found them both "Gay Capital" but Imperial Col-
very helpful. lege has a difficult atmosphere to
Some of my friends have said to come out in. More often than not
me that Imperial College must be a I'm surprised by the very open and
hard place to be gay, but it hasn't accepting way my friends have dealt
been at all! If you are worried about with my sexuality,
coming out, all I can say is "go for IQ was formed toward the end
it!" You've got nothing to lose, you of my first year and it has been an
will get to know yourself a hell of a invaluable place at which to meet
lot better! IQ is a great place to start people and share thoughts,
the ball rolling.

