Out Here tells you where to go out there,
from suggestions made by IQ members.
Cafes
First O u t - A simple cafe. Mixed gay men
and lesbians, of all ages. Serves good but
expensive food. Has a downstairs bar. A
good place to pick up the papers. 52 St
Giles High Street WC2. Tottenham Court
Rd tube
Kudos- Daytime it's largeandairy. Evening
it's large and packed mostly by younger
men.
10 Adelaide St. W C 2 . Charing Cross
tube.
Bars and Pubs
T h e Y a r d - stylish and in the centre of
Soho. In an open courtyard setting,
with a more cosy upstairs bar. 57
Rupert St. W l . Piccadilly Circus tube.
Central Station - A traditional pub
catering for all tastes. Regular cabaret.
Upstairs cafe is quieter and sometimes
serves food. 37 Wharfdale Rd NI.
Kings Cross tube.
7 9 C X R - Loud, popular and cheap. A
bar that has more people but less
attitude. 79 Charing Cross Rd W l .
Royal Vauxhall T a v e r n - South of
the River, and right next to Vauxhall
tube. This one has regular cabaret and
is women only every Friday night for
Vixens. 372 Kennington Lane SEI I.
Vauxhall tube.
Angel - Popular and mixed. Fresh
orange juice and smoothies all evening!
65 Graham St. NI. Angel tube
Clubs
Fridge - Love Muscle, every Saturday
night, loud and vivacious. 2 Town Hall
Parade SW2. Brixton tube.
L o n d o n A s t o r i a /LA2 - G A Y Mon-
days Thursdays and Saturdays. Younger
crowd, regular PAs. 165 Charing Cross
Road W C 2 . Tottenham Court Rd tube
Limelight - Sunday's Tea Dance is
growing in popularity. 136 Shaftesbury
Av. W C 2 . Leicester Sq. tube.
HIV: Facts From Fiction
from centre pages
factors must come into play to make HIV
transmission possible from an infected to an
uninfected person: Quantity, Quality and Route.
Quantity: There has to be enough HIV
present in the body fluid to make infection
possible. Visible amounts of blood, semen or
vaginal secretions are enough.
Quality: The virus must be healthy and
active to infect, it deteriorates rapidly outside the
body.
Route: HIV must enter directly into the
blood stream in sufficient quantity and quality
for transmission to occur, i.e. from one protected
environment to another. This is why sharing
injecting equipment (needles, barrels etc.) is an
easy way for HIV to infect people. The virus can
pass from bloodstream to bloodstream without
being exposed to a harsh environment. Similarly,
unprotected vaginal or anal sex involves body
fluids in sufficient quantity, the quality of the
virus is good and it can pass straight from one
warm body to another. A route of transmission
is possible through small tears in the skin or
membranes around the sexualorgans. This applies
equallyto sex with men or women. HIV does not
discriminate between a persons sexual
orientation. At present the gay community is
better educated than the straight community
and statistics show the latter are more at risk
than the former.
What about condoms? Condoms offer
effective protection against HIV (and other
sexually transmitted diseases) when you have
vaginal or anal intercourse. They stop the
exchange of body fluids so there is no route for
infection. Extra strong condoms are essential for
safer anal sex along with plenty of water based
lubricant such as K Y Jelly, Wet Stuff or Liquid
Silk (oil based lubes like vaseline rot rubber and
destroy condoms). Remember to follow the
instructions and use and dispose of condoms
properly so they can act as an effective barrier.
What about risks? We know the risk of
HIV transmission through oral sex is very low.
Remember, saliva makes the quality of the virus
poor, a healthy mouth and throat acts as a
barrier and stomach acids kill the virus. Some
people prefer to use a condom for oral sex,
flavoured ones are available. Touching, kissing
and DIY are all safe as is any other kind of sex
that does not involve the body fluids mentioned
getting into your bloodstream.
Safer sex isn't just about putting on a
condom: relationships, talking to each other
about what you want and feeling good about
yourself are also important.
Whatever you do, have
fun and be careful.
THE PINK PAPER IS
DELIVERED TO THE
STUDENT UNION OFFICE
EVERY THURSDAY. IT
HAS NEWS, LISTINGS
AND FEATURES OF
GENERAL INTEREST,
AND ITS S
REE
D i r e c t o r y
This list of useful contacts was com-
piled by Nigel Russell from the sugges-
tions of members of IQ. These services
are provided for Lesbian, Gay and
Bisexual people, friends and families:
Lesbian and Gay Switchboard - This
service has information on virtually all
groups, societies, bars, clubs and pubs
of interest to gay people, plus advice
and support. Call 0171 837 7324
24 hours, every day. (A heavily used
service and can be engaged.)
North London Line - project for young
people under 26 open Monday - Friday.
Tel: 0171 607 8346
London Friend - 86 Caledonian Road,
Nl. Offers counselling, helplines and
social support groups. Tel: 0171 833
1674. On Wednesday evenings, Turning
Point - a discussion group about coming
This term marks one year of IQ. In that year IQ
has had visits and speakers of all kinds. In June it
was a visit to see Chris Smith, the first out gay MP,
at the House of Commons. In November it was
Matthew Parris. In December it was off to see
Burning Blue at the Ambassador's. There will be
more events like these in the coming months, and
IQ is meeting all through this term and into the
Summer term.
IQ meets on Tuesdays at 7.30 in the Brown
Committee Room on the top floor of the Union
out - meets here. Phone the helpline for
more details.
Axis Clinic - confidential and free
sexual health clinic for under 26's.
Open Thursday evening, Mortimer
Market Centre WC1. Tel: 0171 380
9650
Positive Youth - self-help group for
young people living with HIV/AIDS. 51B
Philbeach Gardens SW5. Meets Friday
evenings. Tel: 0171 373 7547
The Terrenoe Hlgglns Trust - for infor-
mation, advice and help on AIDS and
HIV infection. 52-54 Grays Inn Road
WC1. Administration: 0171 831 0330.
Helpline: 0171 242 1010. Legal line
0171 405 2381.
New Beginnings - A discussion group
that helps people who are coming to
terms with their feelings. Meets Satur-
days at 7.30 in Central Station (above).
Call 0181 981 3621 for information and
a chat.
Building. You can keep in touch with IQ's events
by looking for the posters on the walkway and by
looking at the web site on
http://pink.doc.ic.ac.uk/IQ/
and you can contact IQ by internal mail ad-
dressed to IQ, IC Union or by mailing to
pink-help@doc.ic.ac.uk
Out Here was produced by Imperial
Queers for SCC Week. Special thanks to
Sarah White, Barry Piatt and Martin.
W h a t ' s h a p p e n i n g a t I m p e r i a l Q u e e r s

