FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 2 ND FEBRUARY 1 9 9 6 . FIVE
Few people will have forgotten the moment when they saw the Space Shuttle
Challenger catastophically explode, killing all seven of its crew. It was a
shocking moment. It was ten years ago last Tuesday.
ll was tragic to lose seven lives, but for NASA,
the accident caused further problems, delaying
their space program by at least three years and
permanently (hanging the public's attitude
towards manned space flight.
Two days alter the accident William
Graham, the head of NASA, set up a committee
to investigate what went wrong with the shuttle.
The commission, which included Neil
Armstrong, Sally Ride and the Physicist Richard
Feynman, found that there was a failure in the
seals between the joints which held the solid
rocket boosters together.
During the launch, two solid-fuel rockets
boost the shuttle lor a lew minutes before they
separate from the shuttle and fall back into the
sea. The boosters are made in sections and the
joints between these sections are sealed before
each flight. The joints arc sealed by two rubber
O-rings, which are approximately a quarter of an
inch thick and lie on a circle 12 feet in diameter. PropsiSaot
When t!nese seals were originally designed by A solid rocket booster joint. If the primary O-ring gets
the Morton Thiokol Company, it was expected
that the pressure from the burning fuel would
squash the O-rings. But because the joint is thick-
er than the walls of the rocket, the walls bow out-
ward during launch causing the gap between the
joint to expand (this problem was discovered very
early, before they ever Hew the shuttle). To
maintain the seal, the rubber has to expand fast
enough to close the gap, so the springiness of the
rubber was an essential part ol the design. The
Thiokol engineers went to the company who
manufactured the rubber, but they said that their
O-rings are not meant to be used that way, so
they could give no advice. Several makeshift
improvements were made to the design, but the
joints still leaked, causing the O-rings to burn in
places.
Up until the Challenger flight, there was a
history ol 'O-ring incidents'. This problem was
discussed in NASA's "Ilight readiness reviews"
hut there1
appears to have been some self contra-
diction in the recommendations (see
Recommendations, below right).II the problem is
"most critical", how could it also he "sale to con-
tinue living?"
During the investigation, an engineer Irom
Thiokol revealed that on the night before the
launch, they had loid
NASA the shuttle should-
n't Fly il the temperature
was helow 53 degrees
(temperature is important
because the colder the
rubber seals are, the less
springy they are). The
temperature on the morn-
burnt, flames can exit through the test port.
ing of the flight was 29 degrees. It seems pressure
was put on Thiokol to launch, even though at
least two of their seal experts were against it.
This is not the whole story of what caused
the Challenger accident, but it does make clear
that there were failures in both the engineering of
the shuttle and in management. Most aeroplanes
are designed "Irom the bottom up" meaning that
all the components have already been extensively
tested. One criticism of the shuttle is that it was
designed from "the top down" (to save time).
Whenever a problem is discovered, a lot of
'makeshift' redesigning was required to fix it.
This is what happened with the seals.
Now matter how many safety features are
built into a rocket, space flight will always be a
very risky business. You will always need a huge
amount of fuel to get into orbit. Should we be
sending astronaughts into space at all? Figures
vary wildly, but most estimates put the chances
of a shuttle launch going catastrophically wrong at
around one in one hundred. If this figure is cor-
rect, we can expect another accident within the
next fifty years or so.
Challenger had on board a school teacher,
Mrs McAuliffe. This signalled the start of space
flight being available to anyone - not just
astronaughts. Since then attitudes have changed.
Whilst some work in space can only be done by
humans, there are good arguments for concen-
trating our efforts on unmanned missions.
J ^ ^ ^ H | | Sending up manned spacecraft requires every
. :
•
. I i ',[IT t i I :!' I
-S systems, and all manner ol redundancy. The
result is an inordinate amount ol testing and
A tell-tale flame coming from the test port on the solid expense. The shuttle lor instance has tour identi-
rocket booster, just before the shuttle exploded. eal computers all running the same program just
in case the other three should all happen to fail at
..,«„, the same time. There is also a fifth backup com-
/ \ \ / O f i i i "\ puter on a separate circuit - it has never been
used.
Humans can also cause problems with
experiments in space. Their movement jogs appa-
ratus which should not be disturbed and intro-
duces dust and moisture into the environment.
The manned "International Space Station" is due
lor launch in 1998. But at an estimated cost of
Two examples of O-ring erosion. Such erosion occurred $ 9 4 h i n i o n i t i s u n d t , r U i r c . l t American Taxpayers
unpredictably on several previous missions. , . , . . • <
f ' r a n c | even many space scientists think that this
money could be spent
R e c o m m e n d a t i o n s
HP
i M P l l !
m
* The Jack of a good secondary s*ai in the field pint is most critical and wavs to
reduce Jointrotation should be incorporated as soon as possible to reduce
criticality
• Analysis of oxisjnq data indicates that.itfarsafej^ontirtue flying listing
IgiJiqn aslongasal) joints are leak checked with a 200 psig stabilization
pressure, are free of contamination in the seal areas and meet Q-ring squeeze
requirements " *"""" * *—'—
more productively.
Unmanned spacec raft,
such as the successful
Jupiter probe Galileo
may the best way to get
more science for less
dollars.
Ben Wilkins

