six . FELIX FRIDAY FEBRUARY 2ND 1 9 9 6 FEATURE
C h r i s t o p h e r P r i e s t
Back in 1983, Chris Priest was on the list of "Best of Young British Novelists". It should be noted that by
then he had ceased to write what is obviously called science fiction, and hence was more acceptable to the
literary establishment.
His early works of Inverted World, a story set on an infinite hyperbolic world in a finite universe, and
A Dream ofWessex, exploring the virtual reality of a potential future Utopia, where part of the British new-
wave of the 70s. He has cited H G Wells as an influence, and this can be seen in The Space Machine, a pas-
tiche on a mixture of The Time Machine and War of the Worlds, as well as in both The Glamour and The
Prestige.
The Prestige, his latest novel, is the story of a feud between two Victorian magicians, each trying to
discredit the others illusions. The novel itself creates an illusion, using several different diaries to tell the
same story from different angles, so that even when all is told the truth is ambiguous. His talk will be on
the research into stage illusions that he undertook for the novel.
P i c o c o n 1 3
Picocon is icsf's annual one day science fiction convention. Each year we organise a programme of speak-
ers, panels and discussions centred around the themes of SF This years speakers are three of the best
British SF writers around today, namely Stephen Baxter, Robert Holdstock and-Christopher Priest. Each
will be giving an individual talk, and will also be on a panel entitled "The Dangers of Being Pigeonholed" -
discussing the pros and cons of any given work being categorised under the SF genre.
As well as other panels and discussions on the themes of the X-files, vampires, shared universes and
the state of fandom. On the less cerebral side, there will be physical games such as Live Lemmings, and
ad-hoc reading of plays from old favourites of the T V and radio. There will also be a dealers room of books,
comics and Hitch Hikers Guide paraphernalia.
To put your mind to rest concerning your sustenance throughout the day, Da Vinci's will be open: the
food side from noon until 2pm, the bar from noon until 6pm.
R o b e r t H o l d s t o c k
Although his early work was mainstream science fiction, it is for his dark woody fantasy novels to which he progressed that he is best known.
Starting with Mythago Wood, and continued in several other novels, these explore the idea ol a persons own subconscious triggering the re-
emergence of mythological characters from the past. This phenomenon is enabled in an ancient piece ol primary lorest, and the characters
brought lorward by the modern day visitors are not necessarily as benevolent as folk legend implies.
Holdstock is actually a very prolific author in the pure volume of
his work, but due to his extensive use ol pseudonyms it is not all that
obvious. For example, he is the author of Elite, the novel based on the
computer game of the same name, and has written scripts for T V and
radio. His new novel, Ancient Echoes - a retelling of the Gilgamesh
myth, will be out in May.
S t e p h e n B a x t e r
Stephen Baxter first became known to British SF readers through
his short stories in Interzone and other magazines. Much of this
fiction was set in his Xeelee sequence, an imaginative and vividly
depicted future history that put many in mind of the works of
Larry Niven. His first novel, Raft, cemented his growing reputa-
tion; the description of the life of human refugees thrust into a
universe where gravity is a force ten million times stronger than in
our own is a hard-sf tour de force justly compared with Tau Zero
and Mission to Gravity.
His subsequent output has maintained it's quality but also
increased its breadth. As well as further Xeelee stories and novels,
he has written SF-Victoriana, alternate history and most recently a
highly acclaimed sequel to H G Wells' The Time Machine, The
Time Ships.
His talk will be on H G Wells time at Imperial, and how it
affected his writing of his fiction.
It is not true that the map of freedom will be complete
with the erasure of the last invidious border
when it remains for us to chart the attractors of thunder
and delineate the arrhythmias of drought
to reveal the molecular dialects of forest and savannasvann
as rich as a thousand human tongues
and to comprehend the deepest history of our passions
ancient beyond mythology's reach
So I declare that no corporation holds a monopoly on numbers
no patent can encompass zero and one
no nation has sovereignty over adenine and guanine
no empire rules the quantum waves
And there must be room for all at the celebration of
understanding
for there is truth which cannot be bought or sold
imposed by force, resisted
or escaped.
From Technoliberation by Muteba Kazadi, 2019
From Australian (and hence too expensive to fly to Picocon) author
Greg Egan's novel Distress, Millenium I 995

