6 F E L I X
A F
R
E
S
H
M
A
N
'
S F
I
R
S
T V
I
E
W O
F I. C.
I had been told how to get to the Freshers
Reception but directions were quite unnecessary
as the Union was admirably signposted1
, by the
fully-rigged sailing dinghythat stood outside the
entranoe, and the glider sitting on the sidewalk of
Imperial Institute Road.
Just inside the building a number of bored looking
gentlemen were sitting around in large armohairs reading
small magazines and pointedly ignoring the stream of
freshfaced young men passing through. Obviously post-
grads waiting for the freshers' free tea, I decided and
hurried on up the 3tairs, though not before being coer-
ced into buying a copy of Felix.
On first entering the reception the scene was
quite amazing. At first the room seemed nothing but
a moving mass of people. Gradually i t was. possible to
make out the various club stands round the walls and in
the oentre of the room, and my fellow freshmen eagerly
pushing their way from one stand to another. It was
more reminiscent of the January sales of Selfridges and
just as easy to t e l l customers and salesmen apart by
their dress, for whilst moat of us sweated in stiff
collars and best suits the various olub organisers
relaxed in old jackets and flannels. Probably i t re-
flected our respective attitudes to the occasion.
Unfortunately^ the Boat and Rugger clubs had their
stands just inside the door and people like myself (I
am only 5' 5") had the greatest difficulty in pushing
our way past their large and beefy followers.
Once past this obstacle, however, i t was l i t t l e
easier to make any progress and I found myself being
carried by the crowd first to this club stand, then
that, and on each occasion had various pamphlets and
typed sheets thrust into my unwilling hand and I was
implored ta sign an imposing looking form, being a l l
the while assured that i t didn't mean a thing. I'm
sure no small boy ever collected train numbers more
avidly than some committee members were collecting
signatures that afternoon.
The photographic society were installed in a
corner and advertising itself by an array of port-
raits, a l l of beautiful young girls i t se. I
joined on the spot. A l i t t l e further on, a sartorial
young man in a gay cheok waistcoat was enquiring of
everybody whether they were conservative. I felt like
explaining that those of us living on University
grants had l i t t l e chanoe of being anything else, but
instead I hurried past looking intently in the other
direction. Politics, I felt, was not quite the thing
to get mixed up in at I r C.
The Debating society were attracting a good deal
of attention, main7y due to some slick talking by one
of their old hands, but I thought they might have; made
better advertising use of their famous fresher's tea.
The Dramatic Society, on the other han* had been very
ingenious and made a model of their fnture home i n the
new Union with which to interest people. As I passed
I overheard one of their numbers explaining that they
had two potential new members from Mines, apparently a
an unheard of thing before. It made me wonder why
miners should be less dramatic than the rest, of the
community at I. C. Probably something to do with the
boots they had to wear I decided.
Back once more at the door I considered that I had
had quite enough of the Fresher's Reception for one
day. Once outside I found that I was just in time to
queue for the Fresher's Tea but prefered instead to pay
for and enjoy the relative peace and quiet of e &
<
(
•
•
Kensington cafe.
B O Y
S CLUBS
Seven members of the I.C. branch of the S.
CM. formed a working party at St. Pierre, the
Training Centre of the National Association of
Boys* Clubs. They had a very enjoyable time,
and their experience would suggest that anyone
who took the opportunity of helping the Boys'
Club movement would be amply rewarded.
The N.A.B.C. run conference weekends, a l l
expenses paid, having as speakers such men as
S i r B a s i l Henriques and Randal Keene.
Anyone interested i n boys' clubs should con-
tact John Bsplen, 17 Bedford Sq. W.C.I (MDS.
5357), or Peter Evans, Rm. 3, Old Hostel.
Personal Advertisements
H936 AUSTIN TAXI: Ex - Camargue, £50 Orfho.
Len Palmer, Rm. 49 01* Hostel.
Ap#y
EX - W.D. 15 cwt. GUY TRUCK - Fitted Dunlop-
i l l o coach seats for 8. Sound tarpaulin covers
rear end. Mechanically sound. This vehicle has
just returned from the Greek frontier. Petrol
consumption 13.6 m.p.g. Taxed 31st.. Dec. Only
faults one bad boot and leaking water pump
gland. Any t r i a l - delivered 100 miles London.
A bargain at £50. Apply P.M. Jones thro1
Union
Rack.
ONE OFF: Professionally converted Ford 8, 4 s t r .
tourer, 1934 chassis, l a t e type engine. Fast
but trustworthy. Around £55. Maddocks, FLA3329.
ONE PAIR CLIMBING BOOTS. SIZE 8. NEARLY NEW.
HAND MADE WITH TRIC0UNI NAILING BY ROBINSONS
OF KESWICK. SEWN-IN WELTS & FELT ANKLE FITT-
ING. (COST £15/-) - ANY OFFERS. Ring B i l l Bun-
ting, PUT 8712.
WANTED: PORT. TYPEWRITER IN GOOD C0NDN. Contact
C.J. Farrow v i a R.S.M. Rack.
r— 1
. e c u
FWhai Think Ye Of
~ C h r i s t ? -
_ / v Y u s s t o n I s a r m i t u j JSJov

