8 F E L I X
SWIMMING CLUBS
SUCCESSFUL TOUR IN DEVON
On Tuesday 26th. June, eleven members of the
Swimming Club departed from I.C. hostel in very sunny
weather, excellent spirits and ancient cars, to test
the beer and water of the South Vfest.
Five water polo matches were played, of which three
were won, one drawn and one lost. The first game at
n'eyaiouth took place in tiie coldest water the team has
ever been subjected to, ruin being necessary to revive
the team. This latter item wa3 responsible for our
final victory of 5 goals to 4. In swimming the
college was too strong for the opposition winning
the one match easily and all the invitation relays
at the other matches.
The next day the waters were warmer at Minehead and
the team had little trouble in winning by 6-0 before
an audience of at least 600.
At Barnstaple Clarke and iicChesney won an exciting
race in the freestyle, Robinson broke the bath record
in winning the breast stroke and with Clarke and
Davidson showing a clean pair of feet to the opponents
in the back stroke, the swimming was one easily 20-10
points. Barnstaple had their revenge 7-1 in the polo
and although the college deserved to lose, some very
curious local rules invoked by the man with the whist
spoilt what could have been a good game.
Our opponents at Bxmouth were a l l county players,
I.C. having but two with such experience, R.King (UC)
who guested for us on this occasion and our skipper
M. Clarke. A very fast and exciting game followed ,
with the college leading by the odd goal for most of
the match. Exmouth were not to be denied however
and equalised in the last seconds of the game with a
final score 4-4.
The tour was completed in typical I.C. fashion
ir. the local hosteleries.
SQUASH CLUB
This year we are again fortunate ir. that four of last
years 1st. toam are s t i l l with us. John Hart, John
Braithwaite, David Stevens and Brian Hill. John Hart
our secretary has been elected University Captain
and we wish him well in this post Trials have been
held and most of the players were of good average
standard and i t is probable that we shall be able to
field one of our strongest second teams ever. The
la-dder system is now in operation and all players
are encouraged to play ladder matches as this helps
in team selection.
GOOD ATTENDANCE
AT HOCKEY TRIALS
I.C. hockey club trials took place last week and
were well attended. Over 40 players came on each day,
and although there was no one outstanding, the general
standard bodes well for the future. In the past the
difference in the standard of hockey between the 1st.
and the other elevens has been considerable, but now
the club looks to the freshers to improve the record of
the 2nd. and 3rd. elevens.
All 3 elevens go into action on 20th. Oct. against
Old Dunstablians.
Forthcoming fixtures of 1st. XI are;-
Sat. 27 Oet. Ashford.
Wed. 31 Oct. University College.
II. C. Ai£lhilleiE@$ in Norway
Our ten day tour of Norway commenced on July 1st.
The partyr which included one lady (sport) flew from
Southend by chartered Dakota to Fornebo airport out-
side Oslo. We were met there by a young lady (more
sport) who conducted us to the city centre.
The team spent three days becoming acclimatised
in Oslo, staying at a Youth Hostel, before moving
south to Fredrikstord where our first match took place
on a rain sodden track.
Highlights of this match, which as a spectacle wa3
ruined with the incessant downpour, were B i l l Pain's
and John Conway's struggle in the 3000m against the
area champion Lars Comeliussen. Pain covered in mud
held off numerous challanges before galloping home to
a 30 yard win. Henry Pinsent ran gallantly in 400m
hurdles to finish 2nd to Jan Borgersen who is the
Norwegen record holder. The 800m was won by Le3 Locke
who allowed the four Norwegians to set the pace before
striding past in the last 150m. The 400m was quite
farcial as Pinsent and Locke disappeared in a cloua
oi spray and mud on the last bend when leading.
Our field events men, Phil Teyribee and David
Langden, found the conditions exceptionally trying,
and as a result their performances were below what
was expected. Tony Watts made a welcome return as our
guest on the tour to partner John Hobson in the 100m
where they finished 2nd. and 3rd. At this stage the
match was abandoned with the promise that we would
return to complete the relay programme on the following
Monday. This promise was kept and we won both relays
in the evening of that day.
Our next match took place at Holden on the Swedish
border. By this time the weather had changed fortunatly
for the better. The match was almost similar in content
to the previous one except that with the improved form
of David Langden and Phil Toynbee we managed to reverse
the result. Here again John Hobaon and Tony Watts
took 2nd and 3rd in the 100m. Richard Hicks came 3rd.
in the 400m won by Henry Pinsent in a very close
struggle. Les Locke again won the 800m to set a new
I.C. record, whilst B i l l Pain arid John Conway eclipsed
their opponents in the 3000m to establish a new record.
The last event, the 1000m relay was won by I.C. in a
very fast time. This was a new event which should
be run here more often as i t tests both speed and tact-
ics.
The rest oi our stay was spent in drinking, dancing
and sport making. It was a most enjoyable holiday
in a beautiful country and plans are now in hand to
invite both Fredrikstord I.F. and Holden I.F. over
next summer.

