Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 2 February
Volunteering Opportunity Inaugural Lecture
We’re looking for student volunteers to help people sign up to a stem
cell register on Friday 23 February. The Union is teaming up with blood
cancer charity, Anthony Nolan, as part of Student Volunteering Week
which runs from 19 - 23 February.
You’ll be helping to run stalls throughout the day, swabbing people’s
cheeks, promoting the charity and encouraging sign-ups.We only require
a few hours of your time so volunteers will not need to stay all day (unless
you want to!).
Every 20 minutes, someone in the UK is diagnosed with blood
cancer. By helping people sign up to the Anthony Nolan register,
you may be able to save someone’s life! You can sign up at
imperialcollegeunion.org/volunteering or send us an email at
volunteering@imperial.ac.uk.
The Union is launching a lecture series, with the inaugural event set
for Tuesday 20 February 2018 at the Pippard Lecture Theatre, Sherfield
Building, South Kensington Campus.
International Risk Expert, Lloyd Figgins, will be hosting a talk and Q&A
on the secrets of safe travel. The event is free but ticketed, so go to
imperialcollegeunion.org/whats-on to book your space.
Lloyd Figgins is a former police officer, soldier and expedition leader who
has worked in over 80 countries, including some of the world’s more
hostile and remote regions. For more information, contactTom Bacarese-
Hamilton, Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) at dpcs@imperial.ac.uk.
Nominations are rolling in forThe Leadership Elections 2018 with strong
interest being shown in a range of positions. If you haven’t already seen
the options available for you to run in this election, visit
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections, read about each role, and choose
the one that’s right for you.You have until midnight, Sunday 25 February
to stand.
Nudge a Friend
If you know someone who’d be great for a particular role, let them know
using our Send a Nudge feature. It’s an online form that notifies another
student that you think they are suited for a position and should run. You
can even do it anonymously. Just go to imperialcollegeunion.org/nudge.
Timetable
Nominations close: 23:59, Sunday 25 February
Candidates meeting: Noon, Monday 26 February
Training for candidates: 26 February - 2 March
Manifesto deadline: 17:00,Thursday 1 March
Candidates revealed and campaigning begins: Noon, Friday 2 March
Voting opens: Noon, Friday 2 March
Voting closes: Noon, Friday 9 March
Results Party: Evening, Friday 9 March
Stand for a position now at imperialcollegeunion.org/elections.

