Great tits offensive
Ben Turner was elected Union Deputy
President earlier this week amid a College
row over his election publicity.
The turnout for the election was very
low, with only about 400 votes being cast.
Mr Turner passed quota after the second
reallocation.
In the first round Spenser Lane polled
93 votes, Graeme Littler 83 and Ben
Turner 168. New election attracted only
40 votes. None of the candidates passed
the quota of 193 on the first count and the
votes for new election were reallocated.
This still left none of the candidates
passing quota and M r Littler's votes were
then reallocated. Mr Turner passed quota,
with 200 votes while M r Lane polled 114
after the second reallocation.
The row over the posters emerged when
complaints were received by Angus
Fraser, College Managing Director, and
Fiona Nicholas, Union Honorary
Secretary, about the 'sexist' nature of the
caption. M r Fraser is believed to have
ordered the clearing of all posters from the
Sherfield walkway as a result of the
complaints.
Miss Nicholas said she was 'sorry that
anyone was upset. The decision to allow
a poster to be put up is very personal and
I thought Ben's posters were O K ' .
Union President, Neil McCluskey,
recieved a letter of complaint from the
Chairman and Branch Secretary of IC
Nalgo, describing the posters as 'grossly
offensive' and asserting that it was 'the
latest in a growing line of sexist copy
emanating from the Student's Union.' He
was also telephoned by M r Fraser and
Peter Mee, the College Registrar, who
said they had received complaints from
College staff, some of them Nalgo
members. M r McCluskey said that his
reply to the letter would support Ms
Nicholas' decision not to censor the
posters.
Catherine Nally, the Nalgo Chairman,
told FELIX that she was glad to see the
back of the posters. She said she felt they
reflected badly on the candidate and that
while students could show their
disapproval of the candidiate through their
vote, the posters were also seen by other
members of college who had voice.
Ms McNally 'wouldn't like to put a
number to how many people had
complained'. She stressed that she felt that
if the posters had racist undertones rather
than sexist ones, there would have been
a far greater outcry.
Mr Turner defended the posters by
saying that he had 'thought the poster was
funny' and insisted that as the birds
pictured on the posters were Great Tits,
the caption was ornothologically correct.
He added that he was 'miffed' that his
posters had been taken down, and that 'if
I'd lost, I'd have kicked arse, but I didn't,
so I don't care'.
Rag's fate
There will be no Rag Fete this year. IC
Union's Rag Committee have blamed Rob
Northey, Refectories manager, for the
canceling of the fete. Mr Northey is unable
to supply a bar in the Main Dining Hall
(MDH) on the day of the fete.
M r Northey said that the Rag
Committee could have used the bar if they
had booked earlier. He told Felix that the
Rag Committee had approached him two
weeks before the event and he had asked
them to return the next day while he found
out whether a possible client would be
using the room. He said that the Rag
Committee did not return and he was later
told that they had cancelled the Fete. He
said that they could have used the facility
if they had returned to check with him.
Mr Northey said that there would have
been problems if it rained as the fete would
have been held in the Junior Commmon
Room. This was booked for the dance club
for that evening, and the mess that a Rag
Fete would leave behind would have to be
cleaned up. He added that mud wrestling
and defaecating goats were not always
conducive to the events being held in the
M D H .
Steve Farrant, Rag Secretary and next
year's Rag chairman, told Felix that he did
not know why the fete had not been
replanned for Beit Quad or Prince's
Gardens. 'We thought it would be better
to call it off, he said. He added that there
would still be an Animal Dump on the
Queen's Lawn on Wednesday 18th May,
courtesy of Poppy the goat, and the prizes
that had been collected would be used in
the May balls of the Royal College of
Science Union and City and Guilds Union.
Dave Williams, Union Deputy
President, said that although there had
been a low turnout last year, there had
easily been enough people to make it
worth while. The poor weather during the
last few fetes had put people off, he said.

