F e l i X
FELIX
This FELIX is a little thin at 16 pages, since most of
the FELIX staff are revising or taking exams at the
moment. I cannot see us rising above 16 pages for
several weeks. I do hope to produce a bumper final
FELIX for June 22, however. If you have any ideas
for features etc. please pop into the office. Work has
already started in preparation for the monster. In the
meantime, if you are at a loose end on a Thursday
evening, please come along to the FELIX Office to help
collate.
Management and Planning Group and Network
I do not wish to comment upon a great deal of this
week's news. Instead I should like to talk about a
College Committee which is taking on an increasing
role in the running of IC. The Management and
Planning Group is a committee chaired by the Rector
and attended by the College's Deans, the Managing
Director and the Business Manager. It is sadly lacking
in one vital area: student representation. This year the
committee has made decisions on the careers centre
at IC. The centre provides a valuable service to
students, who now have no say in its future.
I accept that the college has to make cut-backs. The
problem seems to be that student services are the
target for savings. I could mention a number of
wasteful and costly exercises within IC, which serve
neither the students nor the staff of the college—
where are the cuts here? One big area of monetary
wasteage is the exercise in internal public relations,
known as Network. Network is a 'magazine' which
spreads the good word according to 'The College.' It
is distributed to staff and contains 'news' on how
wonderful Imperial College is, as well as
advertisements for the HUB Office's events and
Humanities Lectures. The editor is Eric Stables, Head
of the Humanities Department (with special
responsibilities for nepotism it seems.I
As a vehicle for making staff aware of what is
happening within the College Network fails abysmally.
As a method of burning tens of thousands of pounds
a year, it succeeds admirably. Why is it that a
publication, which clearly makes no attempt
whatsoever to attract advertising receives money,
whilst a facility like the careers service, which raises
money from industry has funds taken away from it?
I believe that the Management and Planning Group
is a body formed to further the wishes of academics
and the college's administration, whilst ignoring the
needs of the students. The students' union should
press for representation upon it before the situation
becomes irretrievable. I cannot see it being too long
before the hall rents are set by this body. Already the
students have no say in the rent levels, since the
committee which used to set them, with student
advice, has had its powers neutered in this area. Rents
are rising, student benefits have gone and students
are seeing harsher cuts in the areas that affect them.
I do not believe this college has any further wish to
educate undergraduates. If it does, it's got a pretty
shit way of showing it. Arise Sir Eric, Knight of
Cheapskate Industrial Estate..
Competition
The results to the STA Travel and Jesus Jones
competitions will be announced in next week's issue.
Give Blood
City and Guilds Union
will be holding a blood
donor session in Southside
Gym on
M a y 8th
Anybody wishing to give
blood should contact the
Guilds office as soon as
possible
Credits
Many thanks to last week's collators: Dominic and
Graham from Ents, Jeremy Burnell, Tom Yates and
Jim Lucy. Thanks this week to Sarah, Jon Radcliffe,
Mathew, Stone, DEL, Toby Jones, Adam Tinworth,
Adam Harrington, Liz Warren, Anna Teeman,
Matthew Johnson, Rose Atkins, Andy Thompson,
Ben Turner, Simon Haslam, Carolyne Toynbee, Adrian
Pagan, Ian Hodge, Simbard O'Shawn, The Duke of
Westminster, and Hal. Sorry to anyone I may have
forgotten, please let me know.
FELiX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, tondon, SW7 2BB (Tel. 071-589 5111 ext 3515).
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager: Chris Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
MAKE A
Flying START TO THE
NINETIES . . . .
from
PARIS
BERLIN
MADRID
N E W YORK
LOS A N G E L E S
T E L AVIV
HONG KONG
SINGAPORE
o/w
£40
£60
£65
£106
£150
£89
£264
£240
rtn
£65
£89
£108
£198
£300
£149
£528
£480
SKI - O N E W E E K from only £79
W E E K E N D BREAKS from £65
Don't MISS O U T THIS SUMMER -
Seats TO ASIA A N D AUSTRALASIA SELLING EAST
Book NOW TO S E C U R E YOUR SEAT
ULU T R A V E L
SHKRKIEU) IH'll.DINi;
IMPERIAL COLI.ECK
w
\ BT \
E3 — ULU TRAVEL
Accommodation
for October 1990
A selection of fully furnished;
self-containedflatsfor 3,4,5,6,
7 and 8 sharers. Also bedsits in
the Fulham, South Ken and Earl's
Court Areas. Prices range from
£43 p/p p/w.
For further information and
appointments contact:
(071) 731 4073 or 731 0292

