The World's Great Tube Journeys.
Balham to Morden
As an admirer of the London Underground System for
many years, I have decided to start a regular column
of my journeys on this historical and fascinating form
of transport. Summer is a time for travel and
excitement. Last weekend, I set forth upon an
adventure of the highest peril, Balham to Morden.
For just £2.601 was able to foray forth through the
deepest depths of this great capital's suburbia and
enjoy the hands-on experience of Morden. But first,
my preparations.
Equipped with my cagoule for the tropical rain
storms so often encountered in outer London,
according to leading authorities, I checked off my
essentials for survival on the Northern Line. This is
probably a good point at which to make some brief
observations about safety and survival. If you expect
to be out for more than three hours on the 'tube' (as
we Londoners call it), make sure you pack a bivi bag
for those long waits on the Northern line platforms.
If you have a problem with your eyesight (as I and
many of my friends have) then pack a good set of
binoculars to read the information signs. Watch out
for those all important messages conerning bodies
under trains and late trains due to delays on the line.
If you do have the rare privilege of sighting one of the
aforementioned, be sure to bivi down with your
personal hifi. Be sure to pack a bottle of Clearasil for
those longer days.
Having dispensed with safety checks and the
packing of my survival gear, I set out Balham-bound.
Ah Balham! Packed with atmosphere and a truly
international flavour it sums up all that is 'great' in
Greater London. I purchased my 'Capital Card' with
pride. Capital it is too! Such value! A whole day's
travel through 'the smoke' for so little. With my
sparkling prize at the ready, I ventured forth to test
the new barriers. Lorks and lumme! My first adversary
in the battle of Balham. I was so glad of my first day's
contact with those great people from our prestigious
railway service as I found my card jammed in the
machine. After an enlightening conversation about
reproduction and why I could not have a refund I was
glad to buy a new ticket, safe in the knowledge that
the authorities would return my money if they found
the offending ticket. Light of heart and sturdy of foot
I embarked upon my escapade. 'Morden, here I come,'
I thought!!
Life upon the Northern Line has Hispanic roots. As
afternoon approaches, all life becomes one long
siesta, the local flamenco dancing platform attendants
lie down to rest and the station starts to resemble a
small village in the Isle of Wight. The Isle of Wight,
where I met Brenda, for whom my personal hifi will
always be the only lasting memory. A boon to
travellers on the open track, my personal hifi has three
buttons on it. One for play, one for fast forward and
one for stopping. Some of my friends say I never know
when to stop, so I have broken the stop button. Sadly,
the play button was also a casualty in this exploit.
Now I am forced to hold the button down. Life has
its compensations, I now find I waste far fewer
batteries when falling asleep in my bivi upon the
platform.
Settling down to a quiet relaxing wait I unpacked
the paraffin stove I always pack for these occasions
and made ready for a fresh cup of tea. 'Glorious
Balham!' I thought. Beautiful restful Balham. When I
die, I want to be buried in Balham, a place for tranquil
rest and a nice cup of tea, which is always useful at
a funeral, after all. Tea is one of the major exports of
Page 12
Balham, in fact. Few people are privy to the secret
but succesful Balham Tea Syndicate, which meets
every other Tuesday in the local village hall.
After a restful sleep, I made my first attempt at
boarding the Northern line locomotive number G163,
a new number to me, which I subsequently realised
was the last of a fleet exported to the Isle of Wight.
As I viewed the engine with pride I realised my folly,
for the doors were closing. Oh great woe! I had missed
the train. I settled down to brew up once more. I read
the exciting advertisements about the girl who uses
temp agencies for jobs every day not every day jobs.
What wit and humour is contained within such puns
as FantastiKelly! Entertainment is never far away on
the Northern Line. Further down the platform lies a
poster for a dating agency, full of very attractive
people, who I have always wanted to meet.
Dating agencies. I have always wondered what sort
of person uses an agency for arranging their
relationships. You get a lot of time to wonder on the
Northern Line. I am still wondering if I am the sort of
person who joins dating agencies. I'm sure they have
room for somebody with a startling range of
knowledge of Britain's railway network like mine.
There must be women swooning at the mere sight of
a blue cagoule, let alone a 462 diesel at top speed on
the London to Glasgow line. It's not what you wear,
it's how you wear it. My cagoule can be quite fetching
in an off-the-shoulder style, according to my mum
(and she should know).
The cagoule, of course was invented by a French
man called Mr Cagoule. Mr Cagoule, or 'Cag,' as his
friends were known to call him, had been a pioneering
explorer of the deserts for many years when he
realised that a large part of the water he lost in the
desert was due to sweating. To save himself the effort
of carrying an excessive amount of water around the
desert, he invented an item capable of collecting the
wearer's sweat for recycling. After many years' use
in the desert, Mr Cagoule finally discovered a
commercial use for the cagoule, during a freak rain
storm in the Sahara. As well as keeping the sweat in,
it actually protected the wearer from the rain. As a
truly inventive and original designer, Mr Cagoule
decided to patent the coat then and there, and to call
it the 'Cagoule.' (It should be noted that Mr Cagoule's
original coat was blue.)
As the sun began to rise in the sky, I felt my first
hunger pangs calling me to unpack that Pot Noodle
and get stuck in. I could stand it no longer. I had saved
this delicacy all morning. As I waited for the water
to boil, with trembling hands and nervous breath I read
the enticing tub. Sweet and Sour Soya Chicken
flavour pieces with noodles. Who needs meat, when
the luxury of soya can be yours for as little as 79p?
As the tub filled and my tastebuds tingled, I heard a
distant but somehow familiar sound. The train!
I hurriedly pushed my utensils into my bag and made
ready to board, Pot noodle in one hand and capital
card in the other. The doors opened, and I was on.
Morden-bound! My heart rose and I struggled for my
camera to get a good shot of the scenery. Pictured
here is the tunnel between Balham and Tooting Bee.
The shot was taken with a 50mm lens at f8 and a 2
second exposure. As a keen photographer, I knew I
had the shot 'in the bag,' as we say in the trade. I'm
rather proud of it and I have decided to name it 'Tunnel
between Balham and Tooting Bee' Rather a fitting
title, don't you think? I'm no Simon Bailey, but I know
a fair bit when it comes to cameras.
Speeding along the track I was able to see scenes
of the indigenous wildlife, as it sauntered across the
tracks to avoid the train. The rats and other rodents
on the Northern Line have become sedate in their
outlook on life, taking on the relaxed air of their natural
habitat. The Northern Line embodies peace and
tranquility in a way that no other railway service
seems able to match.
Tooting Bee. A place with a fascinating history,
connected with a now extinct form of British wildlife.
Tooting Bee was originally known as Sugdenton. It
had a huge population of creatures with three legs,
two bottoms and no mouth. The 'Bees' as they were
known seemed to serve little purpose in life. They
would spend most of the day passing wind through
clenched buttocks to create a 'tooting' noise. After
the death of the 'bees' during the creation of the
glorious Northern Line, this station was named in their
honour. The next station, Tooting Broadway, was
once a large area of land upon which the 'bees' would
gather on a Sunday in order to 'toot.' Onwards to
Tooting Broadway!
Tooting Broadway is a fascinating place to visit. I
know, because I had the pleasure of spending eight
hours there this particular day. The train terminated
and I dutifully disembarked, searching with an eager
traveller's eye for the 'Nothing to declare' queue near
the exit to 'Cosmopolitan Greater London.' It was then
that I spotted the vivid paintwork upon this station.
Purple, beautifully and tastefully matched with purple.
How could they have known! My favourite
combination of colours! The paintwork was finished
in a tough gloss paint. Subsequent information from
the platform attendant allows me to impart even more
about this fascinating facet of the decorating industry.
The constraint of space is sadly against me this week,
however I failed to complete my trip to Morden on this
particular day, but rest assured, I shall return for
another attempt upon the summit of Morden. Happy
Spotting!
Simbard O'Shawn.

