Rag
After insurmountable problems with Rag Fete it has
unfortunately had to be cancelled this year-so on
May 12 we will now be out collecting for Lukaemia
Research-meet 10.30am in the Snack Bar. All is not
lost though—Relish Wrestling will hopefully happen
for Telethon on May 27, come along to the Rag
meeting today to sign up if this is up your street as
it were.
The Rag AGM will be next Friday, 11 May, and will
be where we choose the charities for next year. If you
have any suggestions please come along with some
info on the charity. The elections for next year's
committee will also take place.
Saturday 12 May sees the Annual Rag Dinner-
tickets are a tad over a tenner and it should be as
much of a laugh as last year.
Just a second reminder that the Monopoly Board
Pub Crawl is on May 26. Finally Rag will be running
'Where Will the Animal Dump' again. The now
infamous goat will be tied to his post on the Queen's
Lawn on Wednesday May 23 and whoever bought the
right 'spot' should win a TV-tickets are on sale from
the Union Office.
Love and Twiglets,
Hal.
Zoo break
Regent's Park-Saturday May 19
Aim: To get as far as possible from London within 12
or 24 hours, disguised as animals (unless you're
suitably hairy anyway). The event is being sponsored
for the journey, or collecting along the way.
Rules: 1. No money must be spent on travel.
2. You must not!!!! break the law.
Prizes for: The team travelling the furthest, the best
dressed team, the team travelling the furthest by
human effort (eg foot, bike, wheelchair, carrying a
Union minibus, etc etc) and the team raising the most
money.
Remember, you can hitch a lift, hijack a plane (legally
of course), take your pet 'dinosaur' walking, learn to
fly, or simply get Mrs T to give you a piggy back.
All proceeds to the Spastic Society (for people with
Cerebral Palsy). If you are interested, sign up in the
Union Office, or come to a Rag meeting (12.40pm,
Friday) for sponsorship forms.
Homosexuality—is the
stereotype true?
Most people, including students, often have a
negative view of homosexuality. Yet if you were to
assume that there is little or no gay element at IC you
would be very wrong. Based on the national statistic
of 10%, at least 500 people in the College are gay.
The overwhelming majority however are unable to be
open about it largely due to the reaction it can
provoke. Yet if it were known, their friends and others
around them would nearly always be surprised for the
simple reason they do not act the way they are
supposed to.
To raise such an issue you might suspect, and you
would be right, in the assumption that I am gay. With
this fact in mind what am I like as a person? The
stereotyped view is well known and unfortunately
well believed. Such a view would have you believe
that I (and other gay people) are a threat to children
and men in general and that we hate women but
desire to be like one. Alternatively we might be
perceived as just 'harmless old queers'! The reality
(surprise, surprise) is somewhat different. I am not
camp, neither do I hate women (in fact I have a great
deal of respect for them) yet I do not desire to be one.
Neither am I a threat to children nor fellow students.
Nobody has anything to fear from me. What is more,
I am relieved to say, I am just another extremely
ordinary person. I am not alone in that fact either.
There are, of course, a number of 'colourful
eccentrics' around but these are not representative
even though nobody should fear them. Virtually every
gay person I have met has been an 'ordinary guy' and
I am sure that is true of the majority of gay people.
If this is so why then is there so much resentment
from the 'straight' community directed towards gays?
There are of course religious objections; 'practicing
homosexuality is a sin'! I am not a religious person yet
I respect the views of those who are. But I can think
of many 'sins' which are far worse than two men who
care about each other expressing that love.
In Family Matters (BBC1,4.4.90) the story was told
of one young gay man who killed himself because his
religion objected to it. The fact that he was forced to
do this disgusts me; his father said after his son's
death that it was better his son had died and was
'with God' than for him to be alive and gay. Such
views are hypocrisy of religious belief and surely
invalidate any religious argument. Hopefully other
religious people are as tolerant as their faith decrees.
I think however that most objections stem from the
fact that little is known about the realities of
homosexuality, especially when what little
information known is based on a few sordid
occurences and gross generalisations. I wouldn't even
want to preach that all gays are warm wonderful
human beings because that certainly isn't true. Just
like society as a whole, the gay community consists
of a wide variety of people and just like society as a
whole most are OK. There are though 'bad elements'
such as gay molesters, rapists, prostitutes etc but just
like such people in straight society they are NOT
representative. I too am disgusted by such people but
what equally disgusts me is that their highly distorted
view of homosexulity is the one highlighted most
often and to the detriment of others. Media such as
The Sun ate full of scandalous tales of 'raving
poofters' and 'loony lefties brainwashing kids to be
gay' and I have to say that if that was my only
information about homosexuality even I would
probably be homophobic! I can therefore understand
why many people feel uneasy about gays. But I say
to those people again: your views are based on
unrepresentative, misleading information. You could
even say that you have been conned by the media.
After all they are there to sell newspapers and not to
give you a fair assessment of ordinary people, gay or
straight.
Homosexuality is not a sin, nor a mental illness. It's
about people who, for unexplained reasons, feel that
they will be happiest and most relaxed with people
of the same sex as themselves. They are, on the
whole, ordinary people just like everybody else, who
don't want to 'take over the world' but just be happy
in their lives and relationships, just like everybody else.
Is that really too much to ask for?
Name withheld by request.
Page 13

