What a turn off!
Dear Dave,
Thank you to all those students who bothered to vote
for me in the election for Deputy President.
My thanks go especially to Dave Osborne for
proposing me, Jessica Rabbit and the birds for
agreeing to pose for only a nominal fee, Dave
Smedley, Jackie Scott, Kevin Hill, Sydney Harbour-
Bridge, Rose Atkins, and all those people who helped
me to run up a £100 tab at the Union Bar!
I appreciated Graeme Littler's congratulations on
announcement of the result. We will remain good
friends and I wish him all the best in his future. As
for the other candidate, who was not present at the
announcement because 'he didn't want to know', I'm
glad that the 114 students who did vote for him will
never realise what a nightmare of a decision they
made.
I apologise unreservedly to everybody who was
offended by my poster. Many people appreciated the
humour and the underlying indirect message. I want
to reassure those who did find it objectionable that
sexism is not in my nature and I certainly will not seek
to drag IC Union into the depths of depravity.
Cheers, and I hope I will live up to your expectations
of me next year.
Benjamin Turner
Nursery is looking up
Dear Dave,
As a parent of a child in the Day Nursery I want to
thank you very much for the interest you showed in
the day nursery (FELIX 865), and especially the issue
of the totally inadequate premises. Although your
report contained some minor factual mistakes, it
helped stir interest in the issue of the Day Nursery
premises throughout the College.
As a result of this publicity, and of other such
actions, concrete steps were taken to improve the
existing premises (a new fire door and fire
extinguishers were installed, and a new vinyl floor was
installed in the baby room) and more are planned (the
basement will be re-painted in the summer). Also, the
College authorities are more aware of the problems
of the nursery, and the parents organised themselves
and meet weekly to discuss nursery issues and take
actions.
My daughter, Nicky, is very happy at the Day
Nursery: she enjoys the company of the other
children, and the care and stimulus from the nursery
nurses. Every morning, when we arrive at the nursery,
she tells me: 'bye-bye', as if to signify: 'I am happy
here, I don't need you any longer'; and I am extremely
relieved and grateful to the nursery nurses for creating
such a happy atmosphere for her. In these months
Nicky has learnt several things at the Day Nursery,
and she is proud about this.
Nevertheless, the fact remains that Nicky spends
most of her day under artificial lighting, and that she
has very little opportunity to run around, and to be
outdoors. The Day Nursery premises are inadequate,
and-as we wrote in our original letter-l feel guilty
and unhappy that Nicky and the nursery nurses are
obliged to play and work under such poor conditions,
that I, myself, would refuse if offered to me as
working conditions.
The IC Day Nursery is an important asset of Imperial
College. A lot of staff depend on it in order to be able
to work in this College, and also, the Day Nursery
plays an important role in student recruiting (especially
overseas students and female students returning to
College for higher degrees). The importance of the
Day Nursery will grow even more in the future as the
percentage of qualified women working after starting
a family increases. Also, other colleges in London,
with whom Imperial College has to compete, cannot
offer this attraction. Therefore, the Day Nursery
deserves the College's very urgent attention and
support.
I hope that your interest, together with the actions
of the parents, of the Day Nursery Committee and of
the Staff will help the nursery to obtain good
premises, as it deserves. Hoping, that in some of the
very next issues of FELIX you will be in a position to
report about concrete steps taken for new premises
for the Day Nursery, and thanking you for your interest
in the Day Nursery.
Yours,
Sophia Drossopoulou (Dr, Lecturer Computing).
HELP WANTED
The Snack Bar needs students to work at lunch times and in the
mornings. No previous experience required. Hours are flexible
and the pay is £2.60 per hour. Free meals are included whilst
working. Contact Ian or Yvonne in the Snack Bar for further
details.
UNION SNACK BAR
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• DramSoc-Interested in proposing a play for
the Edinburgh Fringe Festival? Come up to the
DramSoc Storeroom on Tuesday or Wednesday
lunchtime (1.00pm).
t Juggling; interested in JugSoc? Contact Yant
Maths PG (ext 5769) or G Keogh, Chem 1.
PERSONAL
• Wanted: Drummer and Guitarist for band of
varied influences: Dire Straits thru to Pink
Floyd/Rush to Maiden and Metallica, Vision
essential. Contact Tom/Mark on ext BSH (97) 319
evenings.
• Phallixword: Antipikacarthic Zarathrustianism
expands: Trilobitious Tripitaki?-Triplicate Tripping
Trireme Tryptich. Whither the raison d'etre?
Terpsichorean Lexicographer's Mugwump Brood.
FOR SALE & WANTED
• Wanted Any sub 125 motor cycle, suitable for
a learner. Contact Dave Williams ICU Office ext
3502.
• Bicycle for sale. £ 4 0 including chain and lock.
Ring Andreas on 727 3095.
• Wanted: video of 'Film '90' with 'Society'
review. Apply Jeremy, feeble excuses dept, FELIX
Office.
ACCOMMODATION
• Wanted single room for male. Cheap. Please
phone 452 3823 after 6pm and ask for Adnan.
NINO
of Italy
offers a special price for students of
Imperial College
Men (short hair) Shampoo/cut/dry £10.00
Ladies (longer hair)Shampoo/cut/dry £12.00
Offer available Monday and Tuesday from
9am-5pm. All other times a 20% discount
will be offered on the following:
Perm Waving • Straightening * Bleaching
Tinting • Highlights • Lowlights
and a 10% discount on the following;
Waxing * Facials * Manicure
Eyelash Tinting • Turkish Steamer
NINO OF ITALY
38 THURLOE PLACE, SOUTH KENSINGTON
TELEPHONE: 01-589 1054

