Mac right? Well done 2 No benefit given
Dear Dave,
In last week's FELIX, issue 866, the presidents of
the three CCUs replied to a letter by Mr Holmes, which
caused me a great deal of concern. Granted they may
not have agreed with Mr Holmes' views regarding
CCUs, but they have totally missed the point of the
letter and shown a very immature attitude by resorting
to a blatant personal attack on Mr Holmes. What I also
find distressing is that they also see fit to attack the
Mechanical Engineering Society, a society which,
many others have given a great deal of time and effort
in supporting, including Mr Holmes.
Admittedly, Mech Eng Soc has not been as active
this year as it has previously, but this is not Mr
Holmes' fault, as suggested by Mr Home and
company. Mech Eng Soc organised the department
Christmas party as usual, and was also approached
by the 'group of students who were not aware of the
existence of Mech Eng Soc' to help organise the
Revue and to sell tickets for said Revue. That's quite
a feat if they didn't know Mech Eng Soc existed!
Further to the accusation of 'no events' must come
the question of the Great Egg Race, an event hijacked
from Mech Eng Soc by C&G this year. This proved to
be the straw that broke the camel's back as far as
Mech Eng Soc was concerned, especially as C&G
made no attempt at using any imagination in this
year's Egg Race, and copied the previous two year's
design briefs. It was also interesting to note that far
fewer people attended this year's 'Interdepartmental
Spectacular' than Mech Eng Soc had attracted
previously to the single department event.
I assume that the glasshouse and stone throwing
comment was meant to imply that Mr Holmes had
taken up the chair of Mech Eng Soc for CV points.
If this is so, then maybe Mr Home and company
should check their information before casting
aspersions. Mr Holmes took the chair, not as a means
of gaining CV points, but because no one else was
too keen to take the post, due to the difficulties it was
known would appear, especially given the hijacking
of our major event. Perhaps Mr Home should converse
with last year's chairperson, whom I believe is a friend
of his, to ascertain the truth. Perhaps this would leave
him with no ammunition for the attack he has made
on Mr Holmes.
As I mentioned, I believe that the whole point of Mr
Holmes' letter was missed by Mr Home and co. Mr
Holmes was questioning the £ 8 0 0 0 + expenditure on
computing equipment for CCU offices. City & Guilds
are now the owners of three Apple Macintosh
computers and a Laser Printer. Unless I am much
mistaken, Union business can surely not tie up three
Macs simultaneously, or is it just that they are
convenient for report writing? This is what Mr Holmes
was getting at, a point which has been totally ignored
in a childish personal attack by the CCU presidents.
Perhaps Mr Home and company should get their
information correct before they proceed to throw
stones from their greenhouses.
Yours sincerely,
S Burton, 3M.
Well done 1
Dear Dave,
The Poll Tax is totally fair. My wife and I have saved
untold tens of thousands of pounds from it. Well done
Mrs Thatcher, another good idea.
Yours,
The Duke of Westminster.
Dear Dave,
Congratulations on your campaign on behalf of the
ICP candidates. Tact is clearly not your strong point.
Even the Sun is more subtle (occasionally!.
I'm writing to respond to Andrew Waller's letter in
last week's FELIX.
Whilst rightly ridiculing the Labour Party's stand on
local government financing, I did not 'deride' the
principle of a local income tax. I simply expressed my
own view that a tax based purely on 'ability to pay'
is not necessarily the fairest system devisable.
Firstly, most obviously, income is no measure of
ability to pay. My father earns twice as much as our
neighbour, but with five children (three at university),
high mortgage, rates etc we are not much better off.
Yet my dad pays three times as much income tax, and
would pay twice as much local income tax. Fair?
Secondly, lots of people will have to pay nothing,
irrespective of how much they spend. As Mr Waller
pointed out, people who pay nothing have nothing to
lose and everything to gain from an extravagant high-
spending council. Most people in the country think
everyone should pay something, no matter how little.
Under the Community Charge this minimum
'something' is 5% of local per capita expenditure. I
think that is absolutely fair and reasonable.
I'd like to thank Mr Waller for expressing clearly the
Liberal Democrat's point of view. Will we now hear
from a Labour supporter on the Roof Tax, or is nobody
at IC stupid enough to support Labour?
Yours,
Ultan McCarthy, Physics 2.
I am sorry to hear your parents are so little better
off under a Conservative Government.
Weeks screw
Dear Dave,
It seems that College has found yet another way
to screw every last penny (and then some more) out
of us.
Whilst paying my Weeks Hall rent of almost £600
and in so doing subsidising the incompetence of
residences, I picked up a leaflet for accommodation
over the summer.
With a rent increase of a third for a single room to
£66 in Weeks it seems that we are now being called
on to subsidise the incompetence of the summer
letting scheme (which as far as I know has never made
any money).
The only other way for me to stay in central London
over the summer is to work for the Summer Letting
Scheme under the whims and edicts of Loretta
O'Callaghan. Last year these included all cleaners
being available day and night to porter should this be
required (irrespective of contract hours) and illegally
withholding some students' wages at the end of the
scheme.
With a four figure overdraft I have no choice but to
stay in London and try and pay some of it off and it
seems that I must also pay off some of College's
overdraft. Because the rooms for the summer are
being allocated by the accommodation office I cannot
sign my name to this letter as I know that would
definitely prejudice my application.
Name withheld by request.
Dear Dave,
Before I begin, I must say that I am not a loony
activist. I am an average IC student who at the
moment feels very frustrated.
My friends and I started looking for accommodation
at the start of this term. Naturally, we made the
accommodation office our first port of call. We asked
for some help and advice about finding a flat for the
following year. They pointed at the accommodation
lists, which I imagine most students are familiar with.
However, they mostly contain landlords who want to
rent to students now. So, you ask for something else.
They then give you an application form for the College
flats, and we all know how hard they are to get into
if you don't know the wardens involved.
On asking for an alternative, you are told that there
isn't anything else. Why isn't there a register of
landlords who rent to IC students each year. This, to
me, seems to be the perfect solution. I'm sure that
people could spare a couple of minutes at the start
of the year to tell the accommodation office who their
landlord is. The only alternative at the moment is word
of mouth, which is very dependent on who you know.
In looking for flats, we have seen that we will have
to spend £50-£55 on average, up to £60 to be close
to College. If we still had housing benefit this wouldn't
be too bad. However, we were informed last Friday
in FELIX that students are no longer eligible from
September of this year. If it was on the cards so soon,
where was the campaign to stop it. Isn't that what
a Union is for? I can't remember when I last heard a
Union representative express a view of the matter!
If it sounds as if I'm ranting, maybe I have every
right to. To have this problem when we are running
up to the exams is not only frustrating, but also very
disillusioning. Surely something could, and should, be
done.
Name withheld by request.
Well done 3
Dear Dave,
The Poll Tax is fair. When private organisations
provide useful services such as the provision of food,
the consumer is charged on the basis of the value of
the goods or services provided. Why should this be
any different when the provider is the local council?
What about redistribution of wealth (which includes
education and social services)? It just happens that
the cost of these items, two thirds of local
government expenditure, is covered by the central
government grant (income tax and VAT) and the
business rates. All of these are taxes related to
income.
Local councils exist to protect local residents
(students and non-students alike) from small groups
within society wanting to build hideous buildings at
environmental expense to them. The IC Party council
candidates seem to have misunderstood this basic
concept.
Yours,
Thomas Wyatt, Vice Chairman, ICU ConSoc.
P.S. Much to my surprise, FELIX is improving, albeit
slowly and laboriously. I'd like to congratulate Chris
Stapleton on becoming next year's FELIX Editor. I
believe he has the skill to continue the improvement,
and wish him the best of luck.
Page 15

