Botany
Rob Northey, the man who didn't cotton on to
rag fete.
Money
spinner
Following the recent sale of the car registration
number ' F E L I X ' by the District vehicle licensing
centre (DVLC) at £45,150, it has been decided that
as from next term the title page of this newspaper will
be sold to the highest bidder.
Bids are expected to overshoot this value by
£100,000 reflecting the grandeur yet subtlety in the
scope of the post-modernist/pseudo-Braquesque
functionality of design displayed on these pages.
Book keeping
Imperial College Union (ICU) and the Constituent
College Unions will not obtain a dividend from the
Union bookstore for another two to three years,
according to Dave Williams, Deputy President of
ICU. This is despite a profit of about £36,000 between
August and January this year. The Bookstore has to
repay ICU £36,000 which the Union invested in it
for refurbishment, as well as the cost of a loan.
Blood
transfusion
The next mass blood transfusion will take place in
Southside Gym on May 8th. Anybody can sign up
at the City and Guilds Union (C&GU) office or in
the Junior Common Room on May 1st.
Chris Home, president of the C & G U , said that
there had been 130 donors last time, and all these
donors would be welcome again. He said that the
transfusion should take half an hour for each person.
The Natural History Museum is holding a tour of its
Botany department on the 10th and 17th May as a
part of a series of botanical events. Museum scientists
will give a guided tour of its large plant specimen
collection. Anybody interested must meet at the
Information desk at 2.00pm on the day. Enquiries on
938 8846.
Borrowed
time
The student loans proposal has received Royal Assent
and is now law. From next September the student
grant level will receive its final increase, and each
student will be given access to a loan of £420 a year.
This will be repayable in line with inflation when the
student earns 85% of the national average. Grant
levels will be frozen soon afterwards. Students will
no longer be entitled to housing benefit by law.
The government has not said if there will be added
assistance for students living areas with a high cost
of living.
IC Party
pooper
The Imperial College Party has 'a slim chance'
according to ICP co-ordinator Tom Yates. By 8.30
on Thurday (yesterday) he estimated that 1100 of the
2900 eligible voters in the Knightsbridge ward of
Westminster had voted, 35 % of which were students.
He said that since not all students had voted, the ICP
now depended on outsiders to vote for them.
No figures were available for the Courtfield ward
in Kensington and Chelsea, though as there are very
few students in this ward success is unlikely.
Sex war
Mr Ross Curds, has been elected as Women's officer
at University College London Union. As the first male
Women's Officer, he will not be allowed into the NUS
women's conference and, will not be able to use
women's facilities. There appear to be few complaints
that he is unrepresentative of women at the college.
Photograph
talk
St. Mary's photography society has invited Bob
Bodman, pictures editor of the Daily Telegraph, to
speak on press photography. The talk will be held
in the TV room in the basement of the Medical School
on Thursday 10th at 7.30pm.
Nursery
news
The college nursery has seen a few improvements in
the last few weeks. The College has fitted a new exit
and the fire extinguishers have been updated.
Sue Thornett, Nurse in Charge of the nursery, said
that parents had formed a group to lobby
administration, particularly Peter Hallworth, Manager
of Residences. She said that the nursery always had
more staff than required and it had always 'complied
with all the regulations.'
'We would like to have better surroundings but
somebody has to pay for it', she said. She expressed
regret that some parents of the children had decided
to take on the college without understanding that the
college could not legally help the nursery in financial
matters.
She added that the nursery conditions were 'still
not very good by today's standards'.
Careers
service
The Management Planning Group of IC (MPG) has
decided to keep the post of Information Officer at the
Careers Advisory Service (CAS).
It has lost the post of Vacation Training Co-
ordinator, and the still vacant post of Information
Officer will be upgraded and become a full time job.
The CAS will have to use postgraduate* students to
maintain its services.
Dr Russ Clark, College Careers Officer said that
at the moment there were about 30 students a day
making enquiries at the office, which the service could
cope with 'though the lunchtimes are a little difficult'.
He said that towards the end of the term it might get
worse.
He explained that the present situation was a
compromise, 'We are not entirely happy with the
situation but we'll have to live with it,' he said.

