Nuns on the run
Film
Brian and Charlie really don't like their job. In the old
days everything was easy. When they did a job, no-
one got hurt (except the insurance men, but they are
the biggest crooks going). Since Case took over
though, guns have become the order of the day, and
the new breed have no compunction in using them.
Worst of all, Case has a habit of disposing of people
who try to leave the firm. When this happens to Norm,
a specialist in car resprays, it's too much for Brian (Eric
Idle) and Charlie (Robbie Coltrane). They decide to go
straight, by stealing some stolen money and
scarpering to Rio. Things go a little bit wrong. They
end up in a nunnery, disguised as a pair of nuns from
Chipping Sodbury, being pursued by Case's gang, the
Triads and the Police. Not only that but Brian's
girlfriend has been shot trying to save him, and is
recovering in the nunnery.
This film has a lot going for i t - a good cast (Idle,
Coltrane and Janet Suzman), a talented writer/director
(Jonathan Lynn of Yes (Prime) Minister and the
backing of a quality name (Handmade films).
Unfortunately this doesn't usually guarantee a good
film. So does this strip of celluloid, which is being
compared to A Fish Called Wanda, succeed?
Well it's a little slow to get going, although once
the cross dressing starts (To Alleluia! strains on the
soundtrack) the gags, both visual and spoken, start
flowing thick and fast. The humour isn't exactly
sophisticated-'Remember girls, all you need to know
about the Holy Trinity is that God is like a shamrock.
Small, green and split into three parts!' the disguised
Idle tells some trainees. Coltrane and Idle are
accomplished performers though and are able to milk
the script for everything that it is worth. They also
manage to make the basically preposterous notion of
these two men managing to pass themselves off as
nuns moderately believable.
The unfortunate side effect of making a film which
bases much of its humour around religion is that
people are going to start crying 'blasphemy' which is
a shame because if they looked past the end of their
bigoted noses they'd find that in its own way the film
is actually quite religious. There is an implicit
undercurrent that suggest that God is the mover
- "f
behind the plot.
Humour is a very personal thing and so it is difficult
to recommend such a film. If you like Monty Python
or Comic Strip humour though this is a perfect exam
blues remedy. For me, this is certainly the funniest
thing I've seen since A Fish Called Wanda.
Adam T.
Ballet at Sadler's
Les Ballets Jazz de Montreal is one of a number of
overseas dance companies that visit Sadler's Wells
each year.
The company founded by Genevieve Salbaing in
1972 is dedicated to the fusion of ballet and jazz in
their many and diverse forms.
The evening's programme was a series of short
ballets each choreographed separately. The ballets
were set to music as diverse as Igor Stravinski and
Janice Joplin. As the choreography and music for
each ballet differed so did their impact. Although all
members of the company had tremendous technical
expertise there were some who held the stage more
powerfully than others; these ballets were made
captivating by the dancers' energy and control.
Ballet has a somewhat esoteric image. Les Ballets
Jazz de Montreal shatters any such prejudice-the
dance is contemporary, immediate and entertaining.
Due to the delay of the Easter break this review
comes too late to catch Les Ballets Jazz de Montreal
but Sadlers Wells does offer diverse and exciting
entertainment in opera and ballet. The Kodo
Drummers are highly recommended for their passion
and power-their run is from 7-19 May-for more
information call the Box Office on 278 8916.
Anna Teaman.
D a n c e A married woman's guide
to adultery Book
Adultery is commonplace, you see it in films and to
some of the tabloid newspapers it is their bread and
butter, but it does not always have to be the man that
initiates the affair.
Making pointed character comments and written in
an attractive style, the book trips along gently with
the plot snaking through the complex world of male-
female relationships.
There are some bitter twists in the tale, an example
of this is when a friend is depressed about her own
affair she starts talking about it to another friend who
she believes not to be having any form of relationship.
During their discussion the second friend reveals that
she is also having an affair, with the other woman's
brother!
Throughout the book, she uses the conflict between
men and women, and the dilemma that many women
face while having an affair: not wanting to ruin a
marriage and also loving somebody else's husband.
The story is told through the eyes of one of the
women having an affair. This creates a more intimate
and interesting book than would otherwise have been
achieved.
It has received much critical acclaim from the press,
and also from Fay Weldon who gives the interesting
comment that 'If a book could equal an affair, this one
would be it'. If this is true then perhaps I should get
married as I found the book very enjoyable.
Recommended reading, and you don't have to be
married to understand it.
Ian Hodge.
Page 3

