Society
Film
Opening with a spooky scene of a manor house
bathed in moonlight, one would expect this to be a
horror movie especially with the 18 certificate. But no,
this is a special effects showcase with the odd joke
here and there, not to mention the occasional murder.
Bill Whitney (Billy Warlock) is a well-off youngster
who feels alienated from his family and their privileged
world. A school friend catches Bill's parents and sister
on tape taking part in a murderous orgy. It ends with
a scream.
Bill takes the tape to his Psychiatrist. Unbeknown
to him the shrink is also part of the society. Bill is told
he's just suffering from adolescent paranoia. But then
his friend is murdered, and Billy is picked up by men
in white coats and taken back to the manor house.
They're going to have another party, one in Bill's
honour
This really is a special effects tour de force, flesh
on twisted bodies turning to gunge and falling away
from the body into one pulsating mass of slime.
Unfortunately the plot is ludicrous, sustained only by
the extreme violence in the early sections. Basically
just another crap American film. With lots of other
good stuff around don't rush to see it.
Jerry Hall
Borrowing time
Theatre
This play contained a line about plays which involve
nothing more than people sitting around a talking. This
is one of those plays. Four characters are played by
two people over three acts. In conversations between
Judith Farnsworth, her father.aunt and husband we
are treated to a discourse on life,death,love and
religion. Pretty standard fare.
We are allowed glimpses into the life of a family
over 70 years, slowly developing the whole picture
as we jump from time to time. The actors - Michael
Burrell and Sheila Reid, make a fine job of playing
character ranging from 15 years to 80 years, leading
us to willing suspend our disbelief.
With convincing sets and lighting this is a little
masterpiece of plays of this type and one which is well
worth a visit. Good, thought-provoking stuff.
See Borrowing Time at the Latchmere Theatre, 503
Battersea Park Road, SW11. Box Office 228 2620.
Easiest way to get there is to take a 45 or 49 Bus from
South Kensington, otherwise head for Clapham
Junction.
Adam T.
Look who's
A 1 1 • Film
talking
Look Who's Talking stars John Travolta [Grease, as
if you didn't know) as James and Kirstie Alley (the
manager in Cheers, you know, the manager) as Mollie,
a single working woman. They're an unlikely couple,
thrown together when Mollie goes into labour in the
back of James' cab.
Baby Mikey is born. He and James hit it off and
James befriends his mother. Little does he know that
Mikey is not, as Mollie told her mother Rosie (Olympia
Dukakis), a product of artificial insemination but of
Mollie's married boyfriend Albert (George Segal).
Mollie decides to search for a 'proper' father for
Mikey. Does this mean waiting for the divorce that
Albert protests is proceeding slowly, falling for James,
or going through a line of suitors? Just about here I'll
mention the cantankerous but lovable Grandpa Vinnie
(Abe Vigoda).
Hang on a minute. This is hardly a rib-tickler so far.
But wait, here's the good bit-baby Mikey can talk!
Through the voice of Bruce Willis, his wry comments
come to life. Even before the birth, his thoughts have
us laughing. 'Hey! how about some apple juice down
here?'. His collaboration with James to make Mollie
fall for him forms the basis of the film, but he doesn't
need adults to have a good time. At the sandpit he
becomes a sit-down comedian and a simple push in
the pram is a chance to meet old friends and have a
natter.
Obviously it's Mikey who is the star of the show
but Kirstie Alley is also very funny, especially when
feeding the baby. Imagining her suitors in ten years
time forms a memorable scene where James belches
to keep the children happy after bringing in a mouldy
lettuce to eat!
With the names and the new angle, this film is sure
to do well, but is it funny? It's not an all-time great
but it's one of the funniest new films I've seen in quite
a while. I left in a far better mood than when I went
in. Since I can't do it justice here, you'll just have to
see it yourself.
Toby Jones.
Peer Gynt
Ibsen's Peer Gynt, a Nordic fairytale is the story of
a man searching for his own soul. The play follows
Peer's journey through the world and charters his rise
from local laughing stock to wealth and recognition.
Material success does not result in true happiness, for
this he must return to his native village and the arms
of his childhood sweetheart.
The show runs a long three hours and forty minutes,
it seldom leaves the level of a West End farce and at
times lapses into 'carry-on' style. The deeper, sadder
moments lack power and conviction. The contrasts
written into the script were not played out on the
stage-for this reason the play did not work and
became laborious.
The sets and properties were as lavish and
imaginative as one would expect of the National and
the play as dull and 'English' as one would expect at
the National.
Anna Teeman.
Theatre
Page 4

