Felix rock-journo, Stone, looks at the new 12 " single, Staring at the Sun, and LP Joy 1967-1990
after a gig at the Borderline Club last Saturday by...
Ultra Vivid Scene
Ultra Vivid Scene, the New York based band led by
and largely composed of Kurt Ralske have just
released their first material in a year, a single Staring
at the Sun and their second LP, Joy 1967-1990. As
well as this they have just started their first UK tour,
starting with three sold-out dates at the Borderline
Club.
Ralske has moved away from his penchant for
things sado-masochistic and written songs of a
happier timbre, as the title 'Joy' indicates. Staring at
the Sun is almost identikit indiepop, with guitar
doodling over a simple one-two drum pattern creating
a tangle of hook-lines that combine to give an
irresistible sum. The UVS hall-mark of slightly country-
tinged guitar effects persists, although incorporated
into an entirely different overall sound. Crash, a re-
recording of the first UVS LP, is a repetitive chime of
synth and twang set off by the extraordinary languid
quality of Ralske's vocals. The single is backed with
Three Stars, extended on the 12"/CD which sounds
oddly like thrash metal at a quarter the speed. The
single closes with a cover,of Something Better which
fades away delicately.
The LP, Joy opens with the warbling but heavily
laid-back It Happens Every Time before breaking into
full flow with Staring and the schizophrenic 7" version
of Three Stars. The fourth track, Special One features
Kim Deal of the Pixies on backing vocal and the song
itself is like the Pixies in a gentle frame of mind, plus
what appears to be a Hammon organ bubbling in the
background.
Grey Turns White jangles mesmerically into the
grinding, slyly twisted Poison. Ralske sings with dark
threat in his voice, rather startling after the tranquil
undertow of the rest of the A-side Guilty Pleasure
starts the flip side with a sound that comes straight
out of Sunday morning via severe vibrato and then the
pace ebbs still more into Extra Ordinary which is an
almost disappointing ballad, saved only by the vocals.
Beauty No. 2 starts out as a flowing montage of
sustained notes and then gradually transforms into
little swatches of overlayed guitar. The Kindest Cut
is a sadly obsessive song with a melancholy cello;
Praise The Low is folky and martial in its structure but
not its execution. Lightning builds up to a peaceful but
hardly stagnant close.
Ralske seems to have avoided the problems so
many artists have with the second album, shifting his
outlook to a less bizarre theme without losing his gift
for writing good pop songs (he claims to have already
written 900 songs). Having proved his skill at the
recorded level he only needed to prove he could do
it live. During a 21 -night support to Ian McCulloch in
the States he found he was not only good at it but
enjoyed it immensely as well. Playing live made it
impossible to single-handedly play all the instruments
so UVS expanded to a four-piece for their first UK
dates.
The Borderline, a very small venue (especially for
such a large band), gave the gig an intimate
atmosphere perfect for the band. Ralske took the tiny
stage besieged by his fans (most of whom at the front
could do no more than wave feebly) and played a set
simultaneously too short (only ten or so three minute
songs) and too long (for those of us pressed into the
woodwork). Little of the new album emerged, the set
list being made up from the singles and B-sides; She
Screamed frantic and Staring manic. Three Stars
pulped the crowd and Codine gave us a thankful
respite. The encore was the mighty (and as yet
unsurpassed) Mercy Seat.
Joy 1967-1990 is released on May 8 and the first
10,000 copies contain a gatefold insert. UVS play the
Town and Country Club on May 30.
Apologies and thanks to joy. See you in 2067.
Stone.
Page 5

