^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
Joseph Kazamias gives his opinion on space, time and other things. f 9
What is reality? ms
Space and time are merely the ignorant man's efforts
to explain the 'reality' that his life's experiences have
constructed for him. Space and time, and even so
called 'reality' are all an illusion. When we were born
into this life yet unmarked by wordly experiences,
time and space did not exist for us. Distance and all
other 'man-made' concepts had to be learnt. A child
has no idea how far away an object is if 'he' (or 'she')
has never experienced that object before, to him it is
only an array of colours. In reaching out for the object,
his success or failure of touching it is part of the
process of learning distance. If he misses, his brain
will instruct his arm in another direction, and so
gradually he will learn the idea of distance through
'personalising' the objects around him.
the telly, going to bed at a certain time, or whatever
it may be, it seems we live our life governed by
creation of our own ignorance, time.
Space also supports time. It is through our
identification of objects in motion at certain 'speeds'
(merely our visual field changing colours) that both
speed and time are given reality. Time and space, the
axioms upon which 'science' is built, complimenting
each other and the whole illusion of our reality so
convincingly.
Science, being based on human ignorance therefore
was developed in an attempt for our intellect to
comprehend our 'being'. The concepts of space and
time, both founded on 'thought', can never bring us
the completeness we are searching for, why else do
Woody Allen getting to grips with the concept of time
Thfi nthpr man-maHp mnrpnts arp almost suddenly wp ep?
The other man-made concepts are almost suddenly
given 'reality' when the child learns to speak.
Language is probably our greatest bind to illusion. For
it is through learning to speak that the child no longer
lives 'out of time', in the moment that is, and starts
living 'in time', by looking forward to things. It is
language and experiences with it, that impose this
idea of a self, or ego. As far as he is concerned when
he sits on his chair whipping his horse's behind he is
a cowboy. When he runs around his room with a
broomstick between his legs he is the wizard, flying
from star to star. He only becomes the 'little boy'
when his parents and friends have told him, through
language, 'Joseph, don't do that; let's got out to play;
if you're a good boy, mummy's going to give you a
present' etc, etc, until he's so conditioned by this idea
that he is this 'little boy'. He starts to believe it. He
then continues his life enslaved by his emotions into
craving those experiences which bring him pleasure
and averting those which bring him pain. It is in his
identifications, through language, of objects and
experiences that remove him from the moment, into
regretting past actions and anticipating future ones.
Every such like or dislike reinforcing the past like or
dislike until he has created his own 'reality', his own
world that he believes is the objective world.
Life's experiences continually confirm for us that
space and time exist. Every day the sun rises and
every night it sets. It begins to feel like it's a Monday
morning when we look forward to playing with our
friends in the nursery, blissfully unaware of the
process in creation. It's the formation of habits,
governed by our emotions, that cast the die of illusion.
Yet within this human quality lies the means of our
salvation (which I shall not elaborate on here).
Some people buy watches to efficiently perform
their habits. Whether it be going to work, watching
we search if not for our incompleteness? Even if
science were to find the solution for our existence that
solution would merely be another 'thought'. Such
solutions are unceasingly questionable. 'If this is the
reason for our existence, then what's the point of
that?' etc, etc, etc, it can never end! The intellect, or
mind, can only fail to bring us that completeness we
are so seeking, that is why Yoga was developed for
the spirit to experience it!
If we took some time out to practice meditation we
would see the construction of time in the process. We
would see how it is merely our 'thoughts' that take
us from one minute to the next, one experience to the
next. With further development the thought flow
ceases, and 'time' no longer exists! The acquired
awareness also developed allows us to realise that
pleasure and pain are merely conditioned responses
and that there is nothing to look forward to or shy
away from, that there's just the moment and there
always has been, we've just been too caught up in
'our reality' to realise. We don't even need to practice
meditation to know that time is an illusion. The more
aware we become of a minute the longer it lasts. How
real can it be then? And as for space, is it no wonder
that we can never grasp the concept of 'infinity' when
the axioms on which 'space' it is built are those of
our own ignorance? That's also why we can't
conceive of the beginning of time, that also began an
'infinite' number of years ago.
I can conceive of the day when scientists realise
that all matter is made from energy which is ultimately
light, and that this illusive 'Realm of light' creation
cannot be understood using our ignorance-based tools
but through more practical means, namely the
'science' of Yoga.
Joseph Kazamias (Elec Eng 2).
Bibliography: 'Autobiography of a Yogi'.
Week
• 'Intelligent' vacuum cleaners able to tell the
difference between 'quite dirty' and 'not that dirty at
all' look set to make a few bucks on the back of
forthcoming 'fuzzy' computer software. The system
allows the computer to assign the carpet a value of
zero to one for cleanliness, and suction is adjusted
accordingly.
Invented by computer scientist Lofti Zadeh at the
University of California twenty years ago, 'fuzzy'
systems have found their way into washing machines,
robots and automatic public transport systems
exclusively in Japan. The Laboratory of International
Fuzzy Engineering set up by the Japanese
Government is backed by companies such as Minolta,
Canon, Toyota and Honda wanting a piece of the
action.
• The Japanese Government is preparing to more
than quadruple its use of plutonium in two years.
£75 million is being allocated to the construction
of an armed escort for shipments of reprocessed
plutonium from Europe. Japan's Science and
Technology Agency (STA) reckon on needing 0.9 tons
by 1992 for a prototype breeder reactor. This is at
odds with the predictions of the Nuclear Control
Institute in the USA. They claim there will be no need
for imported plutonium until 1999, by which time a
demonstration advanced thermal reactor will be in
action. But Itaru Watanake of the STA says that
plutonium is fundamental to Japan's energy policy,
and they plan to spend some £ 4 0 0 0 million on a
reprocessing plant of their own.
• Sir Eric Ash is back on the Advisory Board for the
Research Councils as one of six independent
members. The announcement comes almost a month
after the reincarnation of the ABRC. Other members
include Sir Charles Recce (of the UFC) and Professor
Michael Hart (from University of Manchester Physics
Department).
• Research into the San Francisco Earthquake of
October last year agrees with initial speculation
regarding the tragic collapse of part of the Nimitz
Freeway. Columbia University's Lamont Doherty
Geological Observatory, attribute the destruction to
rock types on which the freeway was built. There
were three main factors contributing to the collapse
of the road. Firstly estuarine mud accumulated in the
last 10,000 years amplifies earthquake shocks far
more than the older Ice Age alluvium, upon which the
double decked carriageway remained intact.
Secondly, the optimum frequency at which the mud
amplifies coincides with the resonant frequency of the
structure-between one and four hertz. Finally the
sediment below the doomed section was of just the
right depth to provide the catastrophic frequencies.
• The British otter population is in serious decline
due to the chemical pollution of rivers they inhabit.
According to biologist Dr Chris Mason of the
University of Essex polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)
are responsible for damaging the wombs of the female
otter. Dr Mason is concerned that the highly toxic
PCBs may be leaking from hydraulic irrigation pumps
found on many rivers in the Fenlands. They collect in
fat, particularly in large oily fish which form a large
part of the otters' diet.
Page 7

