Adam Tinworth tells all about Scottish culture and fashion, from the 'Glasgow Kiss' to the City of Architecture Glasgow has a flavour of its own.
Beyond the tartan curtain—Glasgow
Glasgow? City Of Culture? Admittedly it seems a little
improbable, after all as a city it doesn't exactly have
the best reputation in the world-The Glasgow Kiss
('Stitch this, jimmy'), the Gorbals, the amicable
relations between Rangers and Celtic, etc.. No, if
there was to be a cultural centre in Scotland, surely
one would think of Edinburgh first. Much more in line
with previous culture capitals such as Athens,
Florence and Paris Isn't it?
Well not really. To many Scots Edinburgh is viewed
as little more than a colony of England, with more
Sassenachs than Scots. They're probably ignoring the
fact that a sassenach is any one born south of Perth,
not the border. Indeed, rumour has it that pressure
was recently put on Edinburgh University to accept
more Scottish students, which might explain the
unusually low UCCA offers many Scots got from them
last year. Edinburgh's big claim to fame is its world
famous cultural Festival, held every summer. Glasgow
has begun to build its own reputation with its yearly
Mayfest (held in May surprisingly enough). Glasgow
promotes itself as the home of 'real' Scottish culture,
and it is probably more justified in the claim than any
of the other cities. It really feels Scottish in a way
Edinburgh doesn't.
An initial wander round Glasgow doesn't reveal
immediate signs of any great cultural upheaval.
George Square looks much as it ever did, Clydeside
remains its post Garden Festival self and you will still
get beaten up for wearing the wrong colour in certain
parts of the city. The signs are there though.
Buchanan Street has sprouted banners, window
displays tend to reflect the theme and the occasional
oddly painted Taxi crawls by. Discreetly placed
Computer information points and direction signs lead
you to the many venues and buses, shelters and the
Underground all look somewhat spruced up. With a
little effort a whole new Glasgow opens up.
In true Scottish fashion, they are claiming that they
are taking 'culture' not to mean the theatre, arts and
the rest of the high brow events, although they have
their place. Instead the slant is towards culture as in
society. Perhaps the most successful example of this
is the huge new Glasgow's Glasgow exhibition
constructed under the vaulted red-brick arches under
Central Station. The aim is to create a city within a
city, to portray Glasgow's present and its past in one
venue. They try to achieve this using a combination
of computers, audio/visual displays, static exhibits
and live events. Also down there are a restaurant, cafe
and souvenir shop. In the specially constructed theatre
and cinema, a wide variety of events are being staged
including drama, cabaret and jazz. It is an ambitious
project and one which is surprisingly successful. It's
one of those venues it will take a couple of visits to
appreciate.
In a similar vein is the City of Architecture with a
selection of displays glorifying the city's buildings. If
you visit during May you can even go on a guided walk
round the city looking at all the wonderful buildings.
To be honest, Edinburgh does have one big advantage
over Glasgow-its a lot prettier.
Visual stimulation is perhaps better obtained at the
art exhibitions. Glasgow already has a reasonable
reputation for art. The Glasgow School of Art is highly
respected and the Burrel Collection is surely
Scotland's finest art gallery. The goodies on offer
range from the conventional, photographic and avant-
Page 8
garde visual arts displays to the truly bizarre. The best
example of the latter is the Giants, Gems and Jewels
exhibition which includes a greenhouse of growing
crystals, sculpture using molten lava from Etna and
crystal-related drawings by well-known comic artist
Moebius. Sounds fascinating.
Comics themselves, that medium that was once
strictly for kids, and which is now gaining (zap) adult
(biff) credibility (kapow!) have also found their place.
A major comic book convention was held a month
ago, attended by many of the luminaries of this
nascent art form and the 'Bogie Man' comic book has
been launched to coincide with the celebrations (see
FELIX issue 850).
The more conventional types are also catered for.
Glasgow has a reasonable selection of theatres across
the town and a good selection of material is being
performed, from very Scottish productions-Wnen
Elvis lived in Meikle Earnock-Xo touring productions
of already successful shows such as Alan Bennett's
Single Spies and the RSC's Les Liaisons Dangereuse.
Perhaps the most exciting venue is the Citizen's
Theatre in the Gorbals. Currently showing is Brecht's
Mother Courage and productions of George Bernard
Shaw, Goldoni and Nicholas Rowe. It has seating for
600 people even though leg room is rather cramped,
and a tendency to show superbly visual productions
of plays which are not often performed.
The music lovers will find the events unfortunately
dominated by Classical and Celtic music. This is a pity
and rather disproves the notion that this year is to
represent all levels of culture. Those bananas looking
for horny Indie bands are best to buy a copy of the
local equivalent of Time Out, The List, and scour the
music columns for what few bands you can find. For
those of you that would like to see something a little
more traditional one of the many ceilidhs (pronounced
ah-kay-lees) being held throughout the year is well
worth a visit. They can be quite good fun (honestly).
The Scottish Opera have a pretty good programme as
well, with upcoming productions of Madama
Butterfly, Cosi Fan Tutte and Salome.
The Scottish Cabaret scene is possibly better than
the London one at the moment and is well worth a
look. The Clyde Cavern is a venue to look out for as
is anything starring the Funny Farm. Most of the major
venues have something comedic at sometime or
another.
Glasgow is a very religious city. The antagonism
between Rangers and Celtic is basically a dispute
between protestants and catholics. This is being
reflected (excluding the violence hopefully) by a series
of events under the banner The Spirit Of The City. This
will involve Christian and other communities and will
be offering 'an opportunity to explore meaning,
inspiration, renewal and growth'. Hmm. Perhaps I
should warn the world that Scottish religion tends to
be very dour. In fact, it's as boring as hell (sic).
There is some sport for those who find watching
anything which doesn't involve a ball an intolerable
strain on the brain. The Scots have progressed a little
beyond Haggis Hunting and Caber Tossing. The Youth
(under 14) Olympiad is being held there, which should
have the general population on the edge of their seats.
Well, actually they haven't got the caber tossing out
of their national system. The World Highland Games
Championships are being held in June. They should
be easy to find. There's going to be massed Pipe
Bands there. Hundreds of Bagpipes playing
simultaneously. Oh my God. Somewhat more
attractive are The European Special Olympics, first
held in Dublin in 1985, which give people with special
needs a chance to participate in international
competition.
Also a range of new works in a wide variety of
mediums have been specially commissioned from
artists.composers and playwrights. The jewel in the
crown is expected to be a large theatre project called
The Ship which has been commissioned from Bill
Bryden. A tribute to the long gone days of the great
shipbuilding industry on the Clyde, 20 actors will
perform the play while 10 shipyard workers build a
ship and launch it during the course of the play. Well,
it's unusual.
There has certainly been a real effort to make this
year a success. Whether it will succeed or not is
another question. Unfortunately it does look as if the
much vaunted universality of it all has failed to
materialise. Still its worth a look, especially
considering that events will probably be cheaper than
their London nearest equivalents.
For further information write to Glasgow 1990, PO
Box 88, GLASGOW, Scotland. As well as general lists
of events, there are brochures available entitled Where
to Stay in Greater Glasgow and Quick Guide to
Greater Glasgow. For info on Mayfest write to
Mayfest, 18 Albion Street, GLASGOW G1 1LH.
Page 9

