Sab Fashions
By Edna Welthorpe.
Welcome back darlings to Edna's come-and-eat-me-
up style fashion piece... Bad news this week I'm afraid
as we see our own very favourite new election fashion
hipster Jessica Rabbit usurped by sexist trash-
mongerer Ben Turner. Or should we say Ben TurnUP.
Because you see darlings, every pair of trousers
Benjamin sports have those oh-so-eighties turn-ups.
It's true! This could be for two reasons: (i) it's a
discrete place to stash an eigth of cannabis resin or
(ii) because his legs are too short. We rather suspect
the latter, because small men always indulge in sexist
innuendo don't they darlings?
Benjamin obviously tries to identify with the Next-
Man neo-classical look implying that he is a man of
culfure with a love for the environment too. The
ecologically gelled hair, prententious polo-neck and
skin-tight black jeans suggesting rippling athletic
muscles should attract today's post-femininst ideal
woman-a liberated user of ecology minded 'mum'.
But enough of the oh so dull victor. The spoils of
fashion, fall to the gallant losers—I.C.'s very own
Turner and Hooch. Spencer Lane with his Carnaby
Street hat and his seedy old man's raincoat-where
did he get those stains? And Graeme Littler as lovable
Hooch who has even managed to get into a Marks and
Spencer suit in the picture.
So luvvies, was fashion the real winner of the D.P.
election with Benjamins grossly offensive sexual
style? Well no, because being a liberated lesbian I
found the Just Seventeen girl running for new election
far more stylistically titilating than all the others
lumped togther. We can only hope that Benjamin, with
his new source of income, will throw away his entire
wardrobe and make a clean breast of his fashions for
next year!
The Delator
Column
By Carolyne Toynbee
The hot weather has made people do the most curious
things lately. Take Union Publications Board Chairman
Doug King, for example. Mr King has clearly been
showing a lot of sympathy with the many people he
knows incarcerated in Strangeways. Keen to show
solidarity with the inmates, Doug held his own rooftop
protest in the Union building last week. Onto the roof
walked Mr Nicholas Marley, the current bedpal of
ICU's very own Hon Sec. What did Mr Marley see
before his innocent uncorrupted eyes? The pink bum
of Doug King gyrating up and down on top of a Maths
1st year who shall remain nameless (Laurie
McNamee). Quick as a flash, Mr Marley hurried down
to the Union office and instructed Deputy President
Dave Williams to fetch his camera. True to form, Mr
Williams was too slow and so proof of the carnal act
cannot be reproduced here.
Union Bar Manager Jelly Johnson has just returned
from a fact-finding tour of the States. His mission was
to seek out as many bars as possible in order to find
ways of improving the turnover of the Union Bar. On
encountering customs at Heathrow on the return leg
of his trip, he was stopped by officials of HM Customs
and Excise demanding he pay duty on some items in
his baggage. The items in question were a couple of
size 44DD brassieres. Mr Johnson staunchly denied
that they were for his own personal and perverted use
claiming that they were 'presents'. FELIX wish to
speak to a 20-stone woman with four breasts to verify
this.
Following his victory in the Deputy Presidential
election on Tuesday night, Ben Turner celebrated
with, amongst others, Union Manager David Peacock.
The booze was flowing so freely that Mr Turner's bar
tab had reached £ 110 by the end of the evening. Mr
Peacock, who had clearly attempted to drink all £110
single-handed was a bit the worst for wear and ended
up on the DP-elect's floor that night. The next
morning, Ben offered to splash out more of his cash
by taking Peaky out for a slap-up breakfast.
'Everything in the house for my new friend Dave',
cried Mr Turner, 'Money no object'. After much
masticating, the bill arrived. Alas, Ben's coffers had
run dry. Off he trundled to the cashpoint. Sadly, this
too rejected Mr Turner's plea for cash. Mr Peacock
ended up settling out of his own pocket. Not the way
to treat your new employee, Ben.
In the same crowd, was the embarassing Irish drunk
of the evening, ICU President elect, Paul Shanley. Mr
Shanley started his road to stardom by hailing across
the bar to a somewhat camp individual in orange.
Having clearly heard of Mr Shanley, the gentleman
ignored him. After several minutes of shouting across
the bar, Mr Shanley resorted to standing upon a table
and hollering across the bar before crawling over to
the orange clad stranger. After a brief conversation
he dragged the gentleman over to Union Snack Bar
Manager, Ian Richards and introduced the gentleman
as 'Dougal,' to fits of (his own) laughter. Mr Shanley
was later seen being taken away to shouts of 'I think
you've had enough Paul.'
Page 10

