known College nobodies and hushed whispers
of excitement circulated as the Baron Flowers
and his good lady wife arrived on the scene.
Amidst the heady chit-chat the effervescent
first lady was heard proclaiming how well the
College Wives' stall at the Rag Fete had done.
At this point Brian woke up and piped "so it
should have . . . I made the jam."
D o n Monro has also been very busy in
recent weeks following the controversy of the
r e d i s t r i b u t i o n of w o m e n in the H a l l s of
Residence. The Senior Warden was rightly
concerned that Residence Committee should
act on an informed basis and quickly prepared
a questionnaire on the topic for distribution in
the Halls and Houses. To avoid the possibility
of one side or the other (for whatever reason)
copying the forms and unfairly weighting the
results, he set about the task of individually
stamping the forms with a different number. It
was not until he was stamping the very last
form however, that it was pointed out to him
that he was stamping the top half of the form
aboue the "tear off and return" slip.
Quick as a flash he summoned forth an
example of characteristic wit. " O h shit!" he
said, stamping the last form.
Slwkv a Leg
I-see that somebody has written an article on
Freemasonry in this issue. What a surprise it
was to me (a mere Water Buffalo) that such
things actually happen in College! I mean, I can
hardly imagine any of the top College knobs
like Brian and Victor roaming around half
naked chanting a load of mumbo-jumbo. It
strikes me that it might be a bit of fun when
you've had a few too many, but do they really
take it seriously enough to partake in all this
cloak and dagger nonsense? Anyway, I know
for a fact that the handshake business is
completely wrong, as I once saw a retired
captain and a MacDonalds chef swapping such
niceties at a party. Here's a friend and I
demonstrating the real grip.
B y B . B . W o l f f e
Anckm Away
I was most surprised at all the fuss the editor
has been making over this Captain Lindley
fellow. The last thing I remember hearing
about him was that he was rushing around
telling Victor Mooney to slap a writ on the
paper following the N e w Y e a r ' s H o n o u r s
shocker. Reading between the lines on the
issues that I've missed, I gained the impression
that people aren't too sure of who he is or
exactly what he does.
A s Domestic Secretary he's employed to
ensure that everything's ship shape and Bristol
fashion in the domestic section (which includes
Bookings, Cleaning Services, Messengers and
Refectories). Some of the staff in Sherfield
seem to think he's also that white bearded
chap who advertises fish fingers on the box
(Captain Birdseye?) but there's not a scrap of
truth in the rumour I can tell you!
His big thing seems to be "Meet I C " , the
College's P R job on the local residents.
Basically the idea is that we wheel in a few of
the geriatrics from the locale, fill 'em up with
food and wine, show them a few displays in the
J C R and then pray to G o d that they don't
complain when you're blasting Motorhead at
50 watts per channel from your bedroom and
urinating on their geraniums! The old salt
seems a little confused about the whole affair
though. He was under the impression that
about five hundred people were due to attend
the recent do, but only one hundred^ and
seventeen had actually accepted invitations.
Imagine how the poor exhibitors in the J C R
felt after spending many hours preparing their
displays.
Apparently so few people actually turned up
that Martin Parsons (Mr Mooney's under-
study) was seen wandering around pressing
wine on any strangers in the vicinity of the
buffet. There was so much wine flowing that
even John Passmore couldn't manage it by
himself!
Anyway, as his title suggests, he is well
versed in nautical matters and is quite often
seen trimming his sail and setting off on some
vital mission or other. When at a party with the
Mews residents once, he was most embar
rassed when someone strolled over and said
loudly " W h y it's Petty Officer L i n d l e y ! "
Whether this was a statement of rank or a
comment on his attitudes remains uncertain.
S
U
c
f
e
y Fwqm
Senior Warden and well-known socialite
Don Monro threw a wild beef-steak party at
the back of Weeks Hall a few weeks ago. Don
(Kermit to his friends) invited all the well
Jilted Jpfm
John Passmore's part in the redistribution of
w o m e n in H a l l saga p r o m p t e d one w r y
comment from D o n Monro. Knowing John is
keen to be a subwarden next year when he
takes on a P h D , he quipped "Well, he can
forget Beit I suppose!"
S u b s e q u e n t l y it appears that J o h n has
actually applied for a subwardenship, but in
Mining House (more his league I suppose).
Having been the greatest I C U President in
living m e m o r y and k n o w i n g most of the
selection committee, he naturally assumed
that he would have a "good chance" of getting
the job. Imagine my surprise then, when a very
good source told me that when interviewed he
was considered "a complete and utter prat".
The job was given to someone else.
It came as no surprise to me that someone
has at last drawn attention to the similarity
between Captain White and Colonel Lindley
(see letters page). For some weeks now 1 have
had this feeling that a scandal would soon
break in the higher orders. Imagine my horror
Brian
News has reached my ears of the sordid
goings-on in the Union Office. O n the day of
the Derby not only was John (I did it my way)
Passmore off getting pissed as usual, but
matronly administrator Jen Hardy-Smith was
running a book! Well, it was only a sweepstake
really, and I gather that " N a p " Hardy-Smith
joyfully set about the task of matching the
names of punters to their horses by drawing
names written on pieces of paper out of
alternate hats. When Rae Snee and Christine
Teller were asked to draw, a peculiar situation
arose when Rae drew Christine Teller's name
from the "names" hat. All the bets were that
Chrissy would return the compliment when
she drew the horse!
when I discovered that Brian himself is the
spitting image of Captain Scarlet's sidekick,
Lieutenant Green. If all the top College bods
turn out to be wooden headed marionettes,
then who's really in charge? Let's hope that it's
not Colonel White!
Lieutenant Green
Wfo pdh t k bbwm i*t College?

