j t Meet Primelia College
After Captain Birdseye, the Domesticated Secretary of
Primelia College, had stood and counted all the people
uisiting 'Meet PC he decided to get a more detailed
I breakdown of their number. Amble, Bumble, Crumble and
] Drudge were each in charge of a stall, and the good
Captain asked Amble how many visitors each of the four
] stalls had had.
"Well," replied Amble, "the product of the four numbers
is 270. No stall had fewer visitors than mine, and each of
the people visiting the exhibition came to just one of our
four stalls."
"I'm afraid you haven't given me enough information,"
retorted the Captain after only a brief week's reflection, "I
can't even deduce the four numbers, let alone which
number belongs to which stall."
"You're quite right; let me also say that the difference
between the numbers of Bumble's visitors and Crumble's
visitors is at least as large as the number of people who did
not visit Bumble's stall."
But this was all too much for Captain Birdseye, whose
stomach was recalling a particularly choppy night on the
Isle of Wight ferry. But that was his own fault, as Amble
had given him enough information to deduce the numbers
of visitors to each of the four stalls. How many?
I "
f Kurafoussfcisrad
In the first Scaramouche puzzle this term, I
described the intriguing telephone system in the j
East European town of Kuratowskigrad. You will (
remember that there is no central telephone
exchange, and you can only phone one house
from another if there is an independent
underground cable joining the two houses. No
cables cross, and no cable passes under a house;
each cable serves only the twohousesatits ends.
Now when I set the puzzle, I mentioned that a
friend who lives in the town 'proudly informed me i
that he is connected to six of his friends, and no |
one in the town is connected to less than five ^
others' . This means there must be at least |
fourteen houses in the town (see diagram). But |
my friend has since written to point out a slight j
inaccuracy: while I was right in saying that noone |
is connected to less thanfiveothers, I should j
have said that my friend is the on/y person ,
connected to exactly six others.
So now what is the smallest number of houses ,
there could be in Kuratowskigrad? Show your |
answer is possible by drawinga possible network t
of telephone lines.
Spelling B
Or, in the case of most of the FELIX staff,
spelling b awful.
Here are a few of my favourite words
whose spelling is somewhat surprising.
How many of them are correctly spelt
here? (Okay, so I'm a peddant.)
— •
liquefy iridescent
rarefy inoculation
putrefy mars (disfigures)
stupefy consensus
liquefaction loth (unwilling)
rarefaction supersede
putrefaction
stupefaction
Which of the following poker hands is
the best to hold in an ordinary game of
pokerPWhich is the worst? Whichhands
I are of equal strength? The game is
being played with an ordinary 52-card
pack and there are no wild cards. (AS
means ace of spades, etc.)
fa) AS AH AD KS KH
AS AH AD QS QC
AS AH AD QS QH
AS AH AD 6S 6C
is AH AD

