Lindley in the Dock
John William Gat butt Lindley, came to this College three years ago after a long career In
the Royal Navy. He rose to the rank of Captain and was a Naval Aide-de-camp to the
Queen. He was Flag Captain to the Flag Officer for Scotland and Northern Ireland and
Commander of HMS Cochrane (usually known as Rosyth Naval Base). As Domestic
Secretary he is in overall charge of many areas of College, eg Refectories, Halls of
Residence, Security. So that students may gain a better knowledge of him, FELIX Is proud
to present a telephone conversation with him which occured last November. The topic of
discussion is the visit to College of Prince Phillip in connection with the Duke of Edinburgh
Award Scheme. We had hoped to pad out the story with a few factual details concerning
the visit and felt Captain Lindley might have been able to help us.
The following text is a complete and accurate report of the ensuing conversation and
contains the now infamous sentence concerning Captain Lindley's numeracy. We feel
Captain Lindley says more about himself in this short exchange than we ever could!
Good afternoon. I'm Sean Giblin from FELIX.
I'd like to ask you some questions about the
visit of the Duke of Edinburgh to College
today. Could we have some information
which might be of interest to students for this
week's FELIX?
What is it that you want to know?
We'd like to know why he was here, and
something about the Duke of Edinburgh
Award scheme.
.Well, at the moment, just a minute, I have no
secretary, and I'm right up to my eyes. I've no
time to deal with the matter. You're right, he
has been here all day, for the Duke of
Edinburgh Award Scheme.
(At this point some rowdies entered the
FELIX Office. Mr Giblin asked to be excused
to deal with them, and Capt Lindley put the
phone down. Mr Giblin phoned back. The
telephone rang fifty-eight times (we counted
'em!) without Capt Lindiey answering it. Mr
Giblin tried again, and Capt Lindley picked it
up immediately.)
Captain Lindley
Good afternoon. It's Sean Giblin again. I
contacted
Oh, never mind that
Mr Butcher and then Miss O'Callaghan, who
referred me to you.
Look. At the moment I've got quite a few
things. Can you come over in the morning
and have a quick chat?
Well, I don't think there's enough time for that
really, we'd like it in this week's issue if at all
possible.
What is it you want to know particularly?
Well
First of all, you must understand that we
provide facilities, as it were, um, we're not
involved in the detailed running of the thing. I
mean, what they do, their programme and so
on, they set up themselves.
What was particularly interesting was that
when I asked Miss O'Callaghan what was
going on, she said that she had been told by
the Palace not to make any comment
whatsoever on the visit of Prince Phillip
Now hang on., .hang on. Just a minute, just a
minute. Let's get that in perspective.
That's exactly what she said to me.
Look, do you want to know what the Duke of
Edinburgh Award Scheme is about?
We've got enough information on that. What
is particularly interesting is that why, when
we asked for information from College, we
were stonewalled. I've been in touch with the
Press Association to ask them if they know
anything about the Duke's visit to College,
and they were most surprised when I said that
we couldn't get any information from College
Well, look. What I'm going to do, is to talk
about the Duke of Edinburgh Award Scheme,
not what somebody said. All that happened
was that yesterday afternoon we got a
question about TV recording, and we had to
ask whether this was, er, agreed with the
organisers etc and the answer was No, they
did not wish it to be done. Full stop. That's all
it is. There's no mystery.
So a statement that no additional press
coverage is required is false?
You telling me? Look, I'm not going to get
involved in this kind of enquiry—you must
come and see me. I do not conduct telephone
conversations of this sort. I understand you
wanted me to talk about the Duke of
Edinburgh Award Scheme. That I am quite
prepared to do.
We'd like to know how long this event has
been arranged for as well, for example, how
long ago the JCR was booked.
Oh, I can look that up. I don't know off hand,
but it wasn't done five minutes ago, I can tell
you. I mean it was done some time ago, and it
was done properly. So there's no mystery
about that either.
Just to check a few facts, were there 550
visitors?
I wouldn't know, I don't count 'em. Look what
is we're trying to do? Do you want to know
about the visit or not?
You must understand
I'm not going to understand anything.
any information that I've got has been
obtained with great difficulty because of the
apparent attitude in College block
There isn't an attitude in College block. Don't
try and manufacture something where there
isn't anything. There is no attitude at all. If
you want to talk to me about the Duke of
Edinburgh Award Scheme, I'm perfectly
happy so to do. If you start saying to me were
there 550 visitors, the answer is I don't know,
I don't stand and count 'em, and it's not up to
me to count them either but there were
quite a lot.
Do you know roughly where they all came
from?
All over the country.
And that satisfies your concern. You're not
absolutely sure how many people are here
Oh God, I don't know.
If I'd got this information from somewhere
else I wouldn't have had to bother you.
Look. It isn't a question of bothering me. The
Duke of Edinburgh Award Scheme hired the
Great Hall. I don't know how many people.
We know roughly. I suppose if I went down
and asked Mr Mobney how many for lunch
etc, etc, he could probably tell me precisely.
But I don't see quite what this does. You say
"Where do they come from?" I know, because
I've got a list in front of me. It doesn't say they
came from well, you know, Manchester,
Glasgow and so on, but I'm not invovled in
organising the conference.
I had hoped you might have been able to tell
me about foreign visitors. Were there any
from abroad?
Yes, that is correct, I'm sure, because I saw
'em, but as to where they came from, I don't
know. We're simply not told that kind of
information. But it's the Tenth General
Council and Sixth International Conference
1980 and that's what we know. They were
welcomed by the Rector, at 11:30am er it
really isn't up to us. They run their own show,
not us.
Is it common for this to happen? I would have
thought that of all the people in College, you,
Captain Lindley, would have been privy to the
most detailed information available concern-
ing what's going on.
Of course we don't know. Why should you
suppose that? But anyway, we're getting a
long, long way from what we're talking about.
Are we talking about the Duke of Edinburgh
Award Scheme or not? I'm trying to be
helpful. You're trying to lead me into various
sorts of situations
Well, I think, Captain Lindley, that you've got
the wrong impression of
Have I?
people who write for FELIX.
Look, I'm perfectly happy to help you if you
want some information about the Duke of
Edinburgh Award Scheme as far as I'm aware
of it. But if you ask me who came from where
and so on, they know, I don't.
So people from outside IC can come in and
have a conference and people in authority
such as yourself don't actually know what is
going on, and short of rough details
No, no, no, no, no. That'snotwhat we'resay-
ing, that's just not what we're saying. To say
that you don't know what's going on because
you don't have a total list of every visitor,
that's just not so. We have students there, we
could talk about what the Duke of Edinburgh
Award Scheme does and that sort of thing, but
you know that already, if you ask me
questions that I can answer, then I willingly
will, but I do not want for a moment that you
should feel that anybody is trying to suppress
anything, because if you suggest that, then
I'm sorry, but you've got the wrong end of the
stick.
I'm glad to hear that. It's just unfortunate that
the only person in College who has actually
said that is yourself. Thank you very much
Captain Lindley. Goodbye.

