Quotes of the Year
The Ents Chairman had just explained that
Ents could not advertise gigs outside of
College as the G L C would not allow it.
"Perhaps you could put them up and hope
nobody notices them," retorted Ian Morse, the
FELIX Printer.
"For us ignoramuses—just what is a BSc?"
Words immortalised by former External
Affairs Officer, Phil Cole, following ten minutes
discussion on the Greek BSc degree at
Council.
"I often have a leak while changing in the
darkroom." Some obscure reference to light
leaks while changing the FELIX typesetting
paper by Maz Fellows.
"CAREFUL! These are the only originals
I've got"— S J Marshall.
"I'm not as stupid as I look"—Steve
Goulder.
Captain Lindley has a few nice catch-
phrases, eg "Now let's get this straight ";
"No, let me correct you...."; "Look, we're not
trying to hide anything " ; " W e can
cooperate...."; "Let's talk sense...."
" W h a t ' s a 13-incher like?" — S a r a
McGuinness in Pizza Hut.
"I've had a lot of 'assle this week"—Colin
Palmer, and frankly we're not surprised.
"I don't know!"—Rae Snee.
"He's in a meeting, can you ring back
later."—ALL the secretaries in Sherfield.
" F u c k i n g Royalty! Fucking Royalty!
Fucking Royalty!"—J Passmore, on hearing
Princess Anne had been elected as Chancellor
of the University of London.
'They only give him 'Meet I C to stop him
meddling in anything else' —Liz Lindsay.
"They wouldn't get out if they were in MY
police station"—Mr Reeves, Chief Security
Officer, in reference to the R C S U mascotry
vandals.
"I daren't pick my nose unless HE says
so!"—Michael Arthur, making finger gestures,
and referring to the Senior Warden, Don
Monro, who was present.
"I hope you aren't going to print any of
this."—Michael Arthur's most used phrase.
"You are nothing but a creature crawling
across the floor. You ought to be confined to a
cage with nothing more than bread and water
to survive upon."—Mrs Pingree, the College
Archivist, admonising S Marshall who had just
presented Archives with a signed copy of his
1979/80 Rag Mag.
"He's so thick he'd have to take his
trousers off to see what colour underpants he
was wearing."—S J Marshall.
"Ere, what's this French letter doing in
FELIX."—Scaramouche.
And finally,
"Oh, I take it all with a pinch of salt"—a
Mooney classic.
Review
Imperial College has continued this season to
be the foremost college in London University
in the sporting field. The level of activity and
interest in Sport at IC has remained
high—this interest leading to many suc-
cesses. Once again, the Boat Club has shown
that IC is a force to be reckoned with in the
rowing world and this kind of success can
surely do IC's reputation no harm at all. The
Football Club achieved a whitewash of the
ULU leagues—winning all of them. Hockey
Club achieved not only first and second place
in the ULU League but a convincing win in
their Middlesex League—matching them
against top class opposition next season. The
Rugby Club's season has been marred by
some heavy defeats from top class club
opposition, but is still considered a force
within London Colleges—whilst Ladies
Rugby Club has continued from its promising
start last season to eminence this season.
Despite poor facilities, some of the indoor
clubs have flourished this season and now
the Volleyball Court seem to be sorted out
(thanks to Nick) prospects are good for next
session.
Next year's officers have been elected and I
would like to wish Lesley Good Luck as next
year's Sports Editor and remind her of the
FELIX motto "Keep the claws sharpened".
Phil
Life Membership
A proposal concerning an increase in Life
Membership subscriptions is being put to Joint
Council on Monday, June 22. Should this
proposal be accepted the Life Membership rates
will be raised from January 1, 1982 to:
(i) Full member of the Union for 3 academic
years. Cost £10.
(ii) Full member of the Union for less than 3
academic years. Cost £15.
(iii) Research assistant and member of the Senior
Common Room for at least one academic year
or An academic member of staff.
or A member of administrative staff qualified to
degree level
or A member of College staff for a period of not
less than 5 years. Cost £25.
Therefore I would urge all new graduates to
take out their Life Memberships before January
1982.
Incost 81
During the Easter vacation IC Union played host
to the Fifth International Conference for Students
of Technology. A great deal of hard work had
gone into the preparations for the conference
throughout the year by many students from IC.
During last summer invitations to attend the
conference were sent to all the major academic
institutions throughout Europe but the response
was a bit disheartening. In the end we had 44
students attending the conference including two
delegates who were sponsored by UNESCO.
These two students came from Malaysia and
Kenya.
The students arrived on Wednesday, April 1
and were settled into their Southside acommoda-
tion. Unfortunately the heating system was being
altered so some rooms were not very warm! A
welcoming ceremony was held for the delegates
in the Union that afternoon. We were very
pleased to have Prof Sutton present to welcome
the students on behalf of the College. M r Alan
Goodyear from U N E S C O was also present and
he outlined his organisation's connection with the
previous conferences.
Work started on the Thursday with all the
delegates split into their chosen working groups.
The four topics which were discussed were: the
Information Revolution; Transportation in an
E n e r g y C o n s c i o u s S o c i e t y ; E d u c a t i o n a l
Preparation for a Scientific or Technical Degree;
and, the Role of Research in Universities.
The organisers of each group managed to
attract some very distinguished speakers to
contribute to the conferences. These people
included Dr Tony Ridley, Managing Director of
London Transport, M r Paul Sieghart, a barrister
concerned with Privacy Law. Dr John Spice,
Head of Nuffield Science Foundation and Dr
Waller of the National Research Development
Corporation. The general procedure was for our
students to introduce the topic and to guide the
delegates into the various international aspects of
the subject.
Or. the Thursday evening the whole party
headed into the West End for a visit to the
theatre. The show which had been chosen, Euita,
proved to be a very popular choice and the
evening was rounded off by a trip through Soho.
The working groups met again on Friday
morning but in the afternoon the party split up ir.
order to visit some companies. The visits which
had been arranged were to G E C Computers Ltd
at Dunstable and the F o r d M o t o r C o at
Dagenham. Unfortunately the workers at Ford
were on a 'go slow' so the delegates had a
shortened visit.
The G E C visit was very interesting and was
well rounded off with a super afternoon tea! O n
Saturday work started again but we were without
our two Polish friends as they are supporters of
'Solidarity'! In the afternoon several delegates
went to see Q P R play but I think they were
disappointed through the lack of goals. That
evening we held a dinner for the delegates in
Southside. Mr Peter Foster, Deputy Chairman of
the Board of Governors, was our guest speaker
and M r Alan Goodyear replied on behalf of the
guests. Prof Sutton also attended the dinner and
everyone seemed to enjoy the evening. O n
Sunday the group descended upon Silwood Park
where we were received by Mr Fisher, warden of
the park. Following a super lunch at Silwood we
headed back to London via Windsor where there
was lots of time to visit the castle and have
afternoon tea! Later that evening we all met in the
U n i o n B a r w h e r e an i n t e r n a t i o n a l d a r t s
competition was held!
Monday morning was back to work and in the
afternoon the delegates visited British Tele-
communications at Ipswich and the Metal Box
C o m p a n y at W a n t a g e . T h e s e were b o t h
very interesting visits and were enjoyed by
everyone.
On Tuesday the final reports were put together
and were discussed by the group as a whole. A lot
of very interesting information had been compiled
and was presented in very differing ways. The
reports of the groups will be produced before the
end of June. At the final session it was decided
to hold the Sixth I N C O S T in Gliwice, Poland next
easter providing the political situation is relatively
stable. To end a very enjoyable week a pub crawl
a r o u n d the v a r i o u s h o s t e l r i e s in S o u t h
Kensington was arranged.
Our European visitors took advantage of the
cheaper English beer and consumed their fair
share!
On Wednesday most of our delegates left but
all promising to attend a get-together in
Trondheim, Norway in October. After al! the
hassle of the preparations for the week the
conference was a tremendous success and was
enjoyed by all concerned.
Elizabeth Lindsay
ICU Hon Sec

