Greater London Red
Cross Blood
Transfusion Service
This Service provides voluntary Blood Donors to
hospitals in Greater London when it is essential
that freshly drawn blood is used. This FRESH
B L O O D Service is complementary to the
National Blood Transfusion Service and co-
operates with the Department of Health in the
National Health Service. O u r D o n o r s are
prepared to travel to any hospital in the Greater
London area usually at a moment's notice in
order to try and save life. Sometimes it is possible
to give up to twenty-four hours notice, ie when an
operation is scheduled for a specific time. The
Service always does its best to send Donors to
hospitals as near to their place of work or home
as possible.
Demands are increasing and volunteers are
urgently needed to ensure that all calls are met.
A report and seal is sent to the Donor after
every donation. Volunteers must be between the
ages of eighteen and sixty-five and are required to
have a medical examination at St Bartholomew's
Hospital. Anyone who is interested should
immediately contact the Secretary, Greater
London Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service, 4
Collingham Gdns, SW5, 373-1055/6/7 or contact
Roger Serpell, Aero Dept, int 3707.
Bookshop
News
Lead Titles
Smiley's People-John Le Carre, Pan, £1.75
Le Carre's best, the ultimate espionage novel,
more tension and excitement than anything else
he has written.
Making of Mankind-Richard E Leakey, Michael
Joseph, £9.95.
In this book the author has created a lasting
record of his compelling television series.
Beautiful photographs recall the many places
where the series was filmed.
Traditional Islamic Craft in Moroccan Archi
tecture-Andre Paccard, Editions Atelier 74—2
volumes—£125.00.
C o m p r i s e s more than 1,100 pages, 2,000
photographs (almost all in full colour). For the
first time in the history of Islamic architecture, the
great Moroccan master craftsmen reveal their
secrets.
ICON, The Imperial College Review, 20p, is on
sale in the Bookshop. The latest issue covers art,
m u s i c , l i t e r a t u r e , three c o n t r i b u t i o n s — a
philsopher, a priest and an engineer, consider
which books or stories have most influenced their
outlook in later life. Compelling reading. A pity
there is to be only two issues a year.
Recommended Reading Lists. We have had
some enlightening answers to our request for
titles for next term. Examples:
Nearly Essential Reading!
Name Department recommended books, Nil
Classification, a what no book!
List of titles, no name or department
List of titles, O K . Number of students, nil
One department listed 127 titles that are essential
r e a d i n g . T h e cost per student w o u l d be
approximately £2,000.
The Private Life of
Steve Marshall by The Staff
SCC
Stephen John Marshall entered the world on
December 14, 1958 in Wolverhampton. Little did
he realise then that he was destined to become
editor of no less than four publications.
Steve was an unusually perceptive child whose
wasp collection was the envy of many a friend at
Wood End Juniors school. At an early age he
exhibited an aptitude for scientific investigation:
his mother was horrified to find a frog partially
dissected on her bread board and was annoyed
further when he boiled a piglet in caustic potash in
her best aluminium saucepan. O n another
occasion he made nitrogen tri-iodide in his
garden shed laboratory and left it outside to dry.
W h e n he investigated a sudden bang he
discovered the remains of the poor sparrow
which had mistaken the black powder for food.
It is important that all S C C clubs and societies
give their account book to Dr Rzepa before the
end of term.
Stephen Goulder
SCC Chairman 1981/2
Steve is planning to go to Australia next year,
with a holiday in South America in the
intervening months. He is pictured here with his
mother on Blackpool beach during an earlier
expedition.
Another early love of Steve's was money. He
decided that writing was a good way to earn extra
cash, but eventually settled for cartooning. Soon
papers of great repute (Titbits, Weekend, etc)
carried Marshall cartoons, the subject of which
were only limited by what would " s e l l " . By
studying other cartoonists he developed his own
drawing style and brand of humour.
It was his cartooning abilities which led to his
involvement in FELIX. On his first day at IC he
wandered into the office and announced his
desire to contribute to the editor, Duncan Suss.
Presuming that any editor would own a car, he
then cheekily asked for a lift with his belongings.
Duncan managed to arrange a lift for him and
thus secured a weekly cartoon from the keen
Chemistry fresher. With the encouragement of
Bill Tidy, Steve managed to become a member ot
the Cartoonists' Club of Great Britain, an
organisation run by and for professional
cartoonists.
During his first summer vacation he produced a
book of his cartoons which aroused in him a
desire to edit the IC Rag Mag. Steve was very
keen to produce a memorable publication, which
indeed he did. In fact it was during its production
that ht'first became a centre of controversy. The
Deputy President, Malcolm Brain, was very
concerned, because the "sick" jokes and phallic
crossword that Steve intended to include were
totally unacceptable in his eyes. Despite the fuss
and a threat to have his "head caved in" by the
DP, he stuck to his guns and produced a classic
Rag Mag.
In his third year he took control of The Phoenix
which was near extinction after failing to appear
for two years. By careful planning and an
enormous amount of hard work he managed to
raise the magazine back to its previous heights, as
befits a publication founded by H G Wells.
Despite many sleepless nights pasting up he still
managed to work hard on his degree and
graduated with an Upper Second last year.
During his year as FELIX Editor Steve has once
again been the source of some controversial
items. His criticisms of Mr Mooney and Captain
Lindley may not have earned him friends in high
places, but many students have expressed their
enjoyment of such articles. Other Marshall ideas
were less popular, but even a series of U G M
motions seemed to have no effect. He can only
really be judged by his results—the issues which
he produced. These seem to have provoked a
great deal of interest and have always been well
read.
Despite being F E L I X Editor he has still
remained relatively unknown in public. His
defence at U G M s has been carried out by a staff
orator and his face is rarely pictured in the
newspaper. F o r some reason, presumably
modesty, he prefers not to be recognised. For a
year he has lived in a semi—nocturnal existence,
arriving late in the office and remaining there until
the small hours. •
In recent months his plans for the next year
have been the cause of some amusement
amongst the staff. Firstly he decided to take 3
months holiday in South America. We accidently
espied his plans to take pot—noodles and
Cadbury's Smash to the Andes, which raised a
few titters, but "three pairs socks, two pairs
pants" for 3 months was hilarious. The need for
vaccinations prompted Dr Haines' article in the
previous issue and he is still busy trying to
memorize all the types of poisonous snakes
Unfortunately he has had to postone his little
jaunt in favour of setting up a PhD.... in Australia.
Somehow we feel that Aussieland will be ideally
suited to Mr Marshall's requirements (and it is
very far away). However nobody has yet warned
the Australians. We wish him every success in
the venture.
We showed this article to Steve for his
comments. "People might be interested," he said,
...but if they're not stuff 'em!"
A rare picture of Steve taken during his
Grammar School days. We feel that this picture
captures his youthful enthusiasm and vitality
which have remained with him throughout his
year as Editor.

