Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 16 February
Got your ticket yet?
Student Volunteering Week 2018
Information Sessions
Under Pressure 2018
If you’re standing for a position in The Leadership Elections 2018 or
thinking about it, there is a series of information sessions being planned
to help you prepare your campaign, write a manifesto, find out how
Imperial College Union is run, and the part each role plays.
Information sessions run from Monday 19 - Friday 23 February.
The sessions will be interactive and vary according to the role, so check
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections for the schedule and make an effort
to attend the ones relevant to you. Candidates are also asked to attend
a briefing during the week of Monday 26 February.
Nominations close midnight, 25 February. Stand for a position now at
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections.
The Under Pressure campaign is back with loads of stress busting activities
andeventstohelpeveryonetakealoadoff.Check out our calendar of events
from Monday 26 February - Friday 2 March.
Stress is unavoidable, but there are ways to manage it. This campaign
aims to give you strategies to cope during periods of heightened pressure.
Come and find us at the JCR on South Kensington Campus 12:00 –14:00
throughout the week. We have events running every day so take a break
and relax! Go to imperialcollegeunion.org/under-pressure to find out
more.
Student Volunteering Week kicks off on Monday and we’re taking the
time to celebrate all Imperial students who do good throughout the
year! SVW18 is a national celebration of volunteering, run by students’
unions up and down the country.
From Monday 19 - Sunday 25 February, we’ll be recognising all the hard
work our volunteers do across the Union, encouraging others to get
involved, and having discussions on how Volunteering should be run.
There may be free ice cream involved!
For a list of all the activities and events you can get involved in during
Student Volunteering Week, visit imperialcollegeunion.org/svw.
Book your ticket now and witness the action when Imperial Medics do
battle with Imperial College London in the 16th instalment ofVarsityFest.
This year’s rivalry comprises 14 sports with Netball and Kabbadi as the
headline and showcase events respectively.
The first big event will be Water Polo at Ethos on Friday 23 February,
followed by Hockey at Harlington on Wednesday 28 February. Saturday
3 March at Heston will be massive, with a full day of fixtures.
Between games, there’ll be live entertainment, face painting and food
stalls. Book now at imperialcollegeunion.org/varsityfest.

