26 April 1999 Editorial
K O S O V O A P P E A L
I Call us now - 0870 60 60 900
Your gift will provide the food,
clothing, shelter, water, and health
care they need to survive the
terrible weeks of uncertainty ahead.
Kosovo
Yes, I'm afraid the blanket media cov-
erage has even affected your much-
loved (?) Felix. Besides, term has
barely started and the few news writ-
ers we do have are still revising in far
flung corners of the globe. Anyway, I
believe that we all have a conscience,
and not even impoverished students
are exempt from this. "Why is he hung
up on this humanitarian crisis, while
successfully ignoring famine in Africa
and oppressive regimes in Asia and
Latin America?" I hear you ask. The
brutally honest answer is that it is a lot
harder to make a real difference in
places like Sudan. Aid agencies can
do their best, but at the end of the
day a change of attitude is needed as
much as money. In Kosovo, however,
a large injection of cash could make
all the difference in the coming weeks
- for many, the difference between
life and death.
Enough propaganda - what about
the politics? Well, I'm staying out of
them. I am aware that we have rep-
resentatives from many nationalities
at Imperial, and don't want to obscure
the humanitarian problem by opening
a political can of worms, for the pur-
poses of this rant and this newspaper,
I don't care if you blame the Serbs,
NATO or the jolly green giant for the
crisis. I d o care that there is a crisis,
and that people need help.
Thus I call on all media editors at
the college to do their bit by includ-
ing a banner like the one above in
their publications - and I include web
editors and IC Reporter in that. Web
banners (similar to the one above)
can be taken from the Disasters
Emergency C o m m i t t e e w e b site
(www.dec.org.uk), while I will happily
design a high resolution version that
can be printed. I also call on Felix's
readers, and in particular some of the
better paid members of the college,
to respond to such pleas. And if any-
one's got any good fund-raising ideas
then feel free to pop by for a coffee
sometime. Perhaps we could auction
off the spare granite from those infa-
mous flower beds...
Summer Ball
The Union has taken a chance by
underwriting the ball, so I would ask all
those in two minds as to whether to go
to also take a chance and get a ticket
(assuming the previous topic hasn't got
you saving every penny). I don't think
it was made explicit in the article on
page one, but this will be IC's second
ball ever, and if it doesn't work out
there won't be one next year. So the "I'll
go next year" defence won't work. I
shouldn't really need to persuade any-
one - the event speaks for itself, and
looks like being the highlight of the
year - but I guess student apathy, and
the nervous smiles seen in ICU when
the subject is mentioned, have finally
got to me.
A previous editor of lelix had an
idea for such an event as the ball. Basi-
cally, it involved producing a newspaper
every hour for the duration of the
evening, using digital cameras and fast
photocopiers. So your embarassing
antics are down in print for all to see on
the night. It would obviously take a
dedicated and efficient team of jour-
nalists and editors to make such a stunt
work, and is unlikely to happen this
year, but if anyone is keen on the idea,
let me know.
Oh, by the way, welcome back
I knew there was something I had for-
gotten to say. G o o d luck to all of you
who have exams in the coming weeks
(sorry, I can't help but gloat) - may sec-
ond order differential equations be your
friend and short term memory loss your
enemy. For light relief may I suggest AH
Campbell's thought for the Day (page
7). I would recommend other parts of
this issue but, to be honest and without
offending my sub-editors who came
back from their holidays early, this is
one of my least favourite editions. If you
agree, and have time and talent
enough to write a letter of complaint,
then why not write something for Felix?
I am going to get that plug in another
twenty times before Imperial's term,
and mine, is over...
I v . / OTT
any purchase
over £10.
just pop down to tower records on
kensington high st. and produce
your Union card at the counter.
"offer ends 30/06/99.
"excludes already discounted sale product.
*offer applies to the kensington store only.
kensington : 0171 938 3511
www.towerrecords.co.uk

