Films Felix • 15 November 1999
O
D
E
O
N
screen |—|
M A
What's on at ICU Cinema This Week
As you can tell from the screen pages there are some good films in cin-
emas out there. Our very own ICU Cinema is no different. This week they
boost a fantastic line up for you to feast your eyes upon. Films that are
being shown this week are 'Mickey Blue Eyes', 'Shakespeare in Love1
and
'Saving Private Ryan'.
Mickey Blue Eyes stars Hugh Grant, James Caan and Jeanne Tripplehorn
in this romantic comedy about love, fine art and The Mob. Michael Fel-
gate (Hugh Grant), an elegant, debonair Englishman who runs an auc-
tion house in New York, is head-over-heels in love for the first time in his
life. After only three months of dating his beautiful girlfriend Gina
(Jeanne Tripplehorn), Michael gathers up his courage and proposes mar-
riage. But, to Michael's shock, Gina declares that, though she loves
Michael very much, she can never marry him. Michael doesn't give up
easily and ends up getting involved with the Mob curtesey of Gina's father
(James Caan).
Saving Private Ryan is about World War II, which was a pivotal event of
the 20th century. It shifted the borders of the globe. It forever changed
those who lived through it, and shaped generations to come. It has been
called "the last Great War." Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) is ordered
to take his squad behind enemy lines on a dangerous mission to find and
retrieve one man: Private James Ryan (Matt Damon). This film deals with
difficult issues such as sacrifice and death..
Shakespeare in Love is a brilliant comedy starring Gwyneth Paltrow and
Ralph Fienes. Set in the late 1 500's, Shakespeare has writer's block and
is struggling to finish his latest piece of work. He needs inspiration, enter
the lovely Gwyneth, to help him get over the block. This movie is amaz-
ing but don't expect factual historical detail. This film boasts a fine Eng-
lish supporting cast with Dame Judi Dench and the guys from the Fast
Show. A must see for everyone.
There has been some confusion with the prices at the cinema. You don't
need to be a member to go and see the films, as all screenings are now
£3. So you now have no excuse s everyone can afford £3 to see some
of the best films ever. Go get a beer and a curry and enjoy some fan-
tastic films this week. To find out the times of the films just go to the walk-
way you'll see posters. All the information about screenings is on those
posters.
ICU Cinema is still looking for people to help out selling tickets and sell-
ing ice creams. In return you get to see the films for free. Just e-mail
cinema @ ic.ac.uk and they will be able to tell you more or ask the peo-
ple in charge when you go and se a film this week.
Brokedown Palace Competition
This week the Odeon Kensington have five pairs of tickets for Brokedown
Palace to give away. As well as these tickets we have a cd of the sound-
track including tracks from Audioweb and Asian Dub Foundation to give
to one lucky winner,
Brokedown Palace is a story about two high schoolers Alice (Claire
Danes) and Darlene (Kate Beckinsale) who go to Thailand for a mega-
holiday to celebrate their graduation. From there they plan to go to
Hong Kong but drugs get found in their bags so instead the end up in a
Thai jail also known as a brokedown palace. Hank (Bill Pullman) is their
lawyer who tries to get them out.
The Odeon is at the far end of High Street Kensington and the number
9 and 1 0 buses will take you down there for a small charge. These buses
go from the park side of the Albert Hall, So now you know how to get
there all you have to do is answer a question, I realise that last weeks
question didn't go down too well and that IC students don't want to think
up interesting answers they just want an excuse to surf the web. Well if
this is the case then here is this week's question:
In what film did Bill Pullman star as Lone Star?
Answers to film.felix@ic.ac.uk before noon on Wednesday 1 7 Novem-
ber.
The people that made the effort to enter last weeks competition and win
a pair of tickets each are:
M Doering
P Sharma
M Obhrai
C Toffis
M Arendt
Please call by the Felix office to collect your tickets.
More Offers, Offers, Offers
The Odeon have yet another offer to delight you film-loving people,
They have introduced a booklet that allows you to buy three cinema tick-
ets and get one free. These booklets also contain vouchers for money
off Heat or Empire magazine and go large vouchers for drinks and pop-
corn. "What's the catch?" I hear you shout. There is no catch. The book-
let is free and you can get them from the Felix office any time you like.
So come on what are you waiting for?!

