26th February, 1970 FELIX Page 3
U
N
I
O
N
,
ACTION
They say that's how the trouble at L.S.E. started. This
time last year a motion on direct action against the admin,
would have been laughed out of a Union Meeting, but not
now. At the last nearly-quorate IC Union Meeting there was
prolonged discussion between two clearly defined groups,
who, as usual, seem completely incapable of seeing each
other's point of view, and it was all started by a motion that
we occupy level 5 of college block in protest against the
Rector's stalling over the representation issue.
The moderates were there, led by Keith Guy and Stu
Simpson, and the activists, or extremists, or whatever you
like to call them, they were there, with Christopher, May
and Muller impatient for action of any kind. For every time
someone said that action now would ruin any chance of
gaining effective representation on the BoSt, and effective is
the important word, someone else stood to say that some
form of action was essential just to let the admin, know we
cannot be pushed around forever.
Simpson stated that we've only a month to wait for the
results of the next all-important BoSt meeting, and we're
still unsure what those results will be; that was true, yet
Muller implored the meeting to " get up and fucking well
do SOMETHING", and I can understand that as well.
There seems to be no clear path to gaining student repre-
sentation in a way which will mean more than just token
representation, a sop to keep the plebs happy.
For once we had representation of the BoSt at an IC
UGM, in the form of one Professor Alexander, who talked
about avoiding mass hysteria and dragged up the A A affair
again; it was good to see someone from the staff there, of
course, but present in his attitude was the eternal 'yes-of-
course-you-ought-to-do-something - and-I'm-all-in-favour-of-
action-but,-er,-not-yet.', which is becoming depressingly
familiar.
It was a refreshing change to see people clamouring to
speak from the floor, it was depressing to see less than 300
there to hear them, (why were there only three others besides
Piers Corbyn facing the meeting?). Like many others I voted
against the motion more from inertia than from being swayed
either way by the speeches from the floor. It's getting late,
elections approach and we may soon know who we'll be
choosing our new executive from. Next year could see the
whole thing swept under the carpet if we don't get a definite
decision soon.
^ % IP *H
The weary subject of FELIX, what it is, how it is run,
what it should be, how much it should get, how it is inde-
pendent yet is financially very dependent on Union funds
indeed, whether it should be censored or the editor controlled,
etc. etc., keeps coming back. FELLX has been accused of
being run by a clique, and probably with some truth in the
accusation, but we're willing to let anyone in on the FELIX
clique if they come along to the press-room any Tuesday or
Thursday lunchtime to offer their services. Cliques form
through too few people having to do too much work over a
long period; we'll need carry-over staff to learn how to pro-
duce FELIX next term in preparation for the next academic
year. Show yourselves and show some enthusiasm.
T H E N E W S P A P E R O F
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
Editor : Ian Carr
News: Dave Chant, Ian Wil-
liams.
Features: Tony Sims, James
Pinfold, Frances Camp-
bell.
Business: Ian Quarrinton.
Sports: John Darley.
Felicity: John Bowman.
Official Nobody: Mr. Tony
Kirkham.
Assistant Ed.: Mike Yates.
Photos: Simon Hoyle, Mal-
colm Bailey, Andy Thomas.
Circulation: Felix and Sen-
net: Roger Lindsay, with
Pete Morgans and Arnold
Darby.
Typing: Susan Parry.
Salesgirls: Denise and Jean.
And thanks to: John Ackers,
John Schofield, Piers
Corbyn, Phil Taylor, Mike
Muller.
Printed by: F. Bailey & Son, Dursley, Glos.
National Advertising: J.E.P. and Associates, 107/111 Fleet
Street, E.C.4, Tel. 01-353-3712.
Published toy the Editor on behalf of I.C.U. Publications
Board, Imperial College Union, London, S.W.7.
Letters to the Editor
A VERBAL MEANDERING
Dear Sir,
It used to be said that if
one was not a Socialist be-
fore one was twenty-one, one
had no heart, while if one
remained a Socialist after
twenty-one, one had no
head. Presumably, with
earlier maturity as re-
cognised by the law, the age
of twenty-one should be re-
placed by eighteen; as such,
one would expect those who
arrive at a college such as
I.C., and who presumably
should have rather more
'head' than the average
citizen, to be much less in-
clined to the extreme left
politically than the country
as a whole. From my own
experience this is in fact the
state of affairs.
Yet one finds that, while
the majority of I.C. students
are sane and sensible mo-
derates, the affairs of I.C.
Union are completely con-
trolled by the pseudo-leftish
group around the Hon.
Piers Corbyn. I suggest that
this is because the Union
Meetings consist of such a
verbal meandering through
such fruitless fields of naive
pseudo-political — to hell
with the big words — waffle,
that people do not consider
it worth the earache of sit-
ting through a debate (?!)
on a motion in order to vote
against it, especially as they
know that whatever way the
vote goes will affect nothing
whatsoever. If the Union
confined itself to discussing
(sensibly) subjects which are
of interest to the majority of
students, a much greater
amount of participation in
I.C. Union by I.C. students
would result, and until there
is increased student parti-
cipation in student affairs, it
is to my mind pointless to
ask for increased student
participation in academic
and business affairs of the
College.
I would like to suggest a
simple modification to Union
rules which would to my
mind improve the situation.
This is in two parts:—
(a) No subject to be de-
bated by a Union Meeting
(unless Council decides it is
very urgent) until 10% of
the members of I.C.U. re-
quest a debate on the sub-
ject.
(b) No motion to be
passed by a Union Meeting
unless at least 30% of those
entitled to vote, vote in
favour of the motion.
As an indication of the
present state of affairs, at the
only vote of any real im-
portance — that on the
N.U.S. — while I have been
here, it was decided to join
the N.U.S. by (my figures
may be slightly wrong, but
are of the correct order)
something like 204 in favour,
196 against, i.e. 5.1% to
4.9%, 90% don't now (as-
suming 4,000 I.C. students).
Yours sincerely,
K E N N E T H W. H E R O N .
M o r e e x p l i c i t V a n d a l i s m a n d
Dear Editor,
As an interested partaker in the debate on editorial
policy, perhaps I should make my two cents' worth more
explicit. M y one and only concern is that the students of
this college be informed of what is being done on their behalf
and in their name. I appreciate that discussion on repre-
sentation and diversification is a long and boring process,
and that its value as a news item diminishes with time. How-
ever, this does not detract from the right of IC students to
be informed of current developments.
I believe that student representatives have a duty to
report, not only to Council, but also to the body of students
that elected them. If F E L I X is not prepared to print these re-
ports and communications, then some alternative channel of
publicity must be found, the most usual one being bumph
sheets.
Many people have been critical of broadsheets, bumph
sheets and suchlike, but are these people seriously contend-
ing that the Editor of F E L I X be given a complete monopoly
on all publication of information? The need for publicity
exists independently of Felix, and this need must be satisfied.
It must not be construed from this that I disapprove of
editorial freedom. On the contrary, the need for an inde-
pendent newspaper is as acute now as it ever was, but what
I am saying is that there should be an official channel of
communication from I C U to its members.
Confusion arises because F E L I X purports to be this
official channel. By its constitution F E L I X is " the official
newspaper of Imperial College Union ", something which it
clearly is not. No-one, not even the President, can tell the
Editor what to print, and rightly so.
I would advocate, therefore, two things. Firstly, that
F E L I X clarify its status; and secondly, the development of
the IC Newsheet as the official channel of communication.
Yours sincerely,
B R I A N HAINS.
The Editor reserves the right to omit all or part of
any letter or articles submitted to him. Contributors
who do not wish their letters to be sub-edited should
state so.
The opinions expressed in letters and signed articles
are not necessarily those of Felix or of Imperial Col-
lege Union.
Please limit your letters to 350 words wherever pos-
sible, copy date is one week before publication, and
letters received after this time will not be included.
A n t i - I s r a e l
P r o p a g a n d a
Dear Sir,
This week, the Jewish Society held an exhibition in
Mech. Eng. concourse on anti-semitism in the Soviet Union.
The exhibition gave information about certain individuals
who had been subjected to some form of persecution there,
and advertised a demonstration against this discrimination.
On Monday, Janet in the Union Office had a 'phone
call asking whether permission had been obtained for the
display of this exhibition. She replied that it had. On Wed-
nesday, part of the exhibition was ripped down, and
simultaneously anti-Israel propaganda appeared on several
noticeboards — propaganda totally unrelated to the ques-
tion of Soviet Jewry.
It illustrates a very sad state of affairs in the college,
when one cannot put up an exhibition and be sure that it
will stay up. The mentality of the person responsible is
clearly shown by this inane action, in that he is incapable
of expressing criticism in any other way than by ripping
down posters. Freedom of speech in a university is seriously
impaired when this hooliganism continues. It is, after all,
not difficult to put up an exhibition or to write a letter to
F E L I X expressing a point of view. I trust that when the
society holds another exhibition in a few weeks time, these
vandals will see fit to allow the students of the college to
make up their own minds.
Yours sincerely,
H A R O L D M A R S H B A U M
(Chairman, Jewish Society)
A n o n y m i c e
Sir,
I have been most distressed by the letter you printed
from the three anonymice. It is their attitude, shared by
countless female humans in the past, which caused succes-
sively the fall of Atlanti, the collapse of the Roman Empire
in the West, the disintegration of the Holy Roman Empire,
the death of the Aztec race, and the disruption of the
British Empire. In my own experience, it was a not incon-
siderable factor in the fall of Troy, and it is leading at pre-
CONTINUED ON PAGE 8
ESSENTIAL READING FOR
STUDENTS. Keep informed on
politics, world events, social &
economic affairs, new books,
all the arts. Every Friday, 1s 6d.
N E W S T A T E S M A N
STUDENTS CONCESSION
rate: 52s a year. Cash, details
of college, course and final
year to NEW STATESMAN,
Great Turnstile, London WC1.

