Page 4 FELIX 26th February, 1970
WORK GAMPS
CHEAP SUMMER VACS. ABROAD
Many students want to
travel, especially abroad, but
with the limited finances at
their disposal, the costs in-
volved become prohibitive.
With suppressed dreams of
sun-drenched beaches and
wide-open spaces, they are
forced to spend their sum-
mers under the cold rain-
laden skies of Britain. I
would like to suggest exten-
sive source of holidays at
home and abroad that, from
what I can make out, is
virtually untapped or is just
not known about by many
in this country. This is the
field of workcamping.
Before saying any more, it
is essential to define just
what one means by a work-
camp and the purpose of it.
To some it conjures up ideas
of barbed wire and rnizzen
huts (Silwood?), to others,
visions of rubbing sticks to-
gether under the beady eye
of a buxom guide mistress.
Workcamping began to grow
on an international scale
shortly after the war. Its
main purpose is to bring
young people together in an
informal community to per-
form useful tasks and to
a c q u i r e understanding
through the common bond
of manual and other work.
The type of work can vary
enormously, from the social
service side of redecorating
old folks homes or working
in institutions, to forestry,
building or fruit-picking.
The job on hand is the
primary consideration, but
the fringe benefits are end-
less, and the social side is
an important and amusing
side of workcamp life. A
pre-requisite for workcamp-
ing is to be active and
healthy, and so sports
feature strongly for those
who want them. Entertain-
ing tends to be on a contri-
butive basis, and because of
the diverse nationalities
present, apparently mundane
things become of interest, be
it dispelling rumours of free
love on the London Under-
ground, or enumerating the
number of feet on a Royal
Corgi. Someone always has a
guitar, and sing-songs are
frequent, with involvement
formed by the necessity to
produce a national song now
• and again •— Rugby songs
can be risky, as the common
language is English, so
you'd have a lot of explain-
ing to do.
Accommodation tends to
be spartan, so if you can't
live without your Dunlopillo
mattress, maybe this is not
the life for you. The finan-
cial angle is of great impor-
tance, and is such that board
and lodgings are provided
free at all camps, and at
some, pocket money or
minimal wages are paid. Free
travel is provided in the
district, and if the camp is
abroad, travel may be free
or at worst substantial con-
cessions may be made.
Overall, one must expect to
suend a certain amount, but
considerably less than sitting
on your backside at home.
Something about my own
experience of workcamps
might not come amiss—then
at least I will not be accused
of conning unfortunates into
dastardly labour camps in
the wilds of nowhere.
In the summer of 68,
through U.N.A., I got on to
a two week camp in the
Lebanon. Applying rather
late, I had rather little
choice of the company I
wanted, but it was the
Middle East and that was
good enough. I worked for
the first month of the vac to
afford the fare which was £50
return Paris-Beirut, cheap
for the distance and one
third of the regular fare.
Everything was laid on, the
camp being on the site of a
If you are at all interested with the idea of work camps, an organisation which acts
as coordinator is the Central Bureau for Educational Visits and Exchanges, 91 Victoria
Street, SW1. They issue a booklet entitled "Working Holidays Abroad", and will help
you contact the bodies for long term work abroad, such as V.S.O., U.N.A., D.V.S.,
Concordia etc.
c
o
L
C
u
T
T
Spring is once more in the air, and the mists that in the past months
have obscured the view from my tower are receding.
Now that I am able to look down unhindered upon Imperial College,
my amazed eyes are met with an awesome sight: the almost totally
exposed " body politic " of I.C. Administration.
For more years than I care to remember, that deceitful houri, Admin,
performed a " Dance of the Seven Veils " before the mesmerized students,
technicians, and teaching staff of the College. She teased and tantalised
them with suggestive movements of these veils of bureaucracy, without
ever actually revealing a single square inch of herself.
Her audience, craning to catch a furtive glimpse, speculated upon her
hidden charms and became desirous of only one thing: " participation ".
They waited expectantly for this desire to be fulfilled, and were rewarded
with whispered promises. The dance proceeded, the promises continued,
but the veils stubbornly remained — admin was playing had to get As
time passed, the baffled audience became more and more impatient —
suggestions became requests, requests became demands. They clamoured
for participation, and even threatened the most ungentlemanly behaviour.
And so the first veil was cast aside and, amid cries of "more, more"
doubling and re-doubling, the rest were torn away one by one.
Now the Board of Studies, for a little while yet, clutches the one
remaining veil, behind which Admin attempts to hide herself from the
cold gaze of those she led on for so long. For she is revealed at last as
nothing but an ageing whore. Her clients are industry, her pimp the D.E.S.
Needless to say, she is very simple-minded, having a childish conservative
outlook on life and believing in a " Great Architect of the Universe"
(who is presumably not a graduate of the A.A.).
So, if the student body was to seek my advice, I would say this:—
Do not participate. Withdraw representation (you never know what you
might catch). With the teaching staff and technicians set up a new virgin
structure to oppose the administration. A word of warning though —
beware the jealousy of the admin, whore. She will try to cripple her rival
even before conception. So refuse any token gift-wrapped concessions —
they might contain " thalidomide ". And above all remember that you have
nothing to lose but your chains.
Yours in springtime hope,
Colcutt.
Roman temple up in the hills
among the superb scenery.
The work entailed some
scratching around on the dig
every morning, which was
hardly arduous, with the
rest of the day to ourselves.
This camp was very good in
that we had a well balanced
community, consisting of
Dutch, Germans, English,
Czechs, Swiss, a Norwegian,
some Lebanese and loads of
French girls. We had a week
touring the country in a
beaten up bus, having to pay
for our food only. This
was an exceptional camp, in
that so much was free,
and resulted from the
Lebanese government's desire
to nurture international good-
will, apart from their natural
generosity — not surprising
with Israel on their southern
border. Having got out
there so cheaply, I then
bummed on to Egypt (in-
cidentally a country full of
fascination, and with such a
low standard of living that
survival is easy) via the deck
of a Greek boat and Cyprus,
but that's another story.
K e e p t h i s d a t e
c l e a r
tohear about careers for Graduates
- men and women- in the RoyalAirForce
" T o find o u t w h a t a j o b is like, talk to someone w h o is doing i t . " T h i s
is perhaps the m a i n reason w h y y o u ' l l be interested to meet the R A F ' s
U n i v e r s i t y L i a i s o n Officer. H e is a U n i v e r s i t y m a n , like yourself, w h o
has chosen to m a k e h i s career i n the R A F . H e c a n tell y o u about the
advantages w h i c h the R A F offers to graduates i n different c a r e e r s - s u c h
as flying, engineering, logistics, personnel management, teaching a n d
catering, a n d he c a n go into a l l the practical points like the selection
process, career prospects, the pay, a n d length o f contract.
T h e A p p o i n t m e n t s B o a r d w i l l tell y o u the t i m e a n d place where y o u
can meet h i m . N o o b l i g a t i o n !
Can't make it? There are two other things you can do:
1. Go and visit the RAF. You can stay graduate, but the award carries three
on an R A F Station for two days, as a
guest, living in the Officers' Mess. Your
host would be a young officer. He would
show you something of life on an R A F
Station and the various specialisations.
First step to arrange this: write to Wing
Commander J. G . Bishop, D F C , M A ,
R A F , Ministry of Defence Mo. (RAF),
Theobalds Road, London, W . C . i .
2. Get the RAF Careers Literature
from the Appointments Board.
Reminder:
RAF 'salary' for students
is £855 per annum
The scheme for R A F sponsorship of
students—called University Cadetships
—has now been greatly extended. You
live and work like any other under-
important benefits: a 'salary' up to £855
a year (with your tuition fees paid);
membership of a University Air Squad-
ron; and a career at management level
when you have taken your degree.
Cadetshipsare open towomen students
as well as men, and the range of per-
mitted subjects is wide. There is special
provision for students who want to
become Education Officers.
For information about University
Cadetships please write, giving your
date of birth, saying what you are read-
ing, at what College, and when you ex-
pect to graduate. The address is Group
Captain E. Batchelar, R A F , Adastral
House (27HW1), London, W . C . i .
R o y a l A i r F o r c e
aerocrats

