Page 8 FELIX 26th February, 1970
S So Long, Cathy LETTERS
RALPH McTELL
"MY SIDE OF YOUR
WINDOW"
TRA 209
I have felt for a long while that Ralph
can say so much in so few well chosen
words in so simple a song(s). This was
reinforced by seeing him at the Purcell
room a few weeks ago in his first solo
concert, and by listening to this his
third record.
His melodies have instantaneous and
lasting impact. 'Factory Girl' is the most
obvious example. The song itself is
about the monotonous life of a factory
girl and yet the tune gives the impression
that she still finds pleasure in life. The
same with 'Clown' who seems to enjoy
living two lives and not knowing which
is real.
'I've Thought About It' is one of the
most serious numbers and Ralph makes
forthright statements about the mess the
world is in without sounding resent-
ful at all. He is one of the people whose
music is inifuenced by his life of playing
on street corners in Europe and "Father
Forgive Them" is one such item, while
"Blues In More Than Twelve Bars",
a "ragtime and smiles" number, is
another.
Switching to piano on " A l l Things
Change" he claims that the fairy on
the Christmas tree is the only thing
that doesn't change, and finally he
questions the insanity of being sane in
"Michael In The Garden", a song about
a "nutcase" enclosed i n his own happy
world, being observed and scorned by
"well-knowing" people.
To quote Joni Mitchell, Ralph has
"looked at life from both sides now",
but yet he "really don't know life at
all", and nor do any of us.
KEVIN AYERS
"A JOY OF A TOY"
SHVL 763
Although this record has been re-
leased quite a while, I only discovered
it last week and was so impressed with
it that I decided to include it. Kevin
is the former bass player with Soft
Machine (who are now getting the
recognition deserved), and all the songs
on this album are written by him and
produced by Peter Jenner. Soft Machine
in fact back him on 'Song For Insane
Times', but on most tracks he is helped
on piano by David Bedford, a classical
composer. Several of the tracks take
some getting used to — for instance
'Oleh Oleh Bandu Bandong', on which
he employs two Scots girls to sing in
Malay. As regards the lyrics, I tend
to compare Kevin to Pete Brown, but
on all tracks the instrumental arrange-
ments are the striking feature. They
employ the use of cello, piano, piccolo,
kazoo, four types of guitar as well as
string and electric bass at various stages.
I fear that this has been very under
publicised and the originality of the
tunes neglected. Kevin's voice is odd,
but suits his songs, and I think you
should at least hear it if nothing else.
SIMON & GARFUNKEL
"BRIDGE OVER TROUBLED
WATER" CBS 63699
For me, Paul Simon has indented a
lasting impression in my mind. His songs
are deeply personal and "Bookends"
featured strongly in this. Somehow I
couldn't help but feel that I knew Cathy
of "Cathy's Song" as well as I know
my own sister. But I find this latest
record from Simon and Garfunkel very
disappointing indeed. There are good
tracks — "The Boxer" rates very highly
and both "Bridge Over Troubled
Water" and "The Only Living Boy In
New York" are of the outstanding
Simon calibre. But then "Baby Driver"
and "Why Don't Y o u Write Me". Given
this record without a label I would have
said it was unmistakably the Beach
Boys. A n d "Cecelia". This isn't a Paul
Simon love song, although "Song For
The Asking" is. The record is very well
produced and I feel that this is what
he has probably turned his hand to and
thus neglected his songwriting. I sum
up my feelings by saying that I live in
anticipation of better things to come.
PHIL TAYLOR
Ralph McTell
PIECEPIERSPIECEPIERSPIECEPIERSPIECEPIERSPIECEP
I.C. is now in ferment. We
are strengthening Union pol-
icies to make sure that they
will be really effective
when (!) implemented by the
College. We are pressing
hard, and taking limited
action too, to get them im-
plemented (see report of
Monday's Special I.C. Coun-
cil meeting—Felicity). Elec-
tions are upon us. Some Pro-
fessors and staff are taking
this opportunity to persuade
students of certain things.
Many members of the Col-
lege are dismayed by the
A.A./I.C. merger break-
down. The Trade Unions
(I.C.A.S.T.M.S. etc.) are in
strong disagreement with the
Administration—but making
some headway under pres-
sure/threat. Their demands
will come to a head in early
March.
The three major items we
are pressing for right now
are (1) to persuade the Rec-
tor to recognise and talk
with the I.C.R.C (students
and technicians, etc). (2) re-
form of the Refectory Com-
mittee (making the chairman
elected by the committee and
increasing trade union and
clerical workers' representa-
tion). (3) representation on
Board of Studies and com-
mittees of Board of Studies,
and presence at the B.O.S.T.
decision meeting.
It is important that repre-
sentation is large enough for
us to have an effective voice,
and important that it in-
volves discussions at the
Departmental level—so it in-
volves you! Use your Depart-
mental reps! Help organise a
representative structure in
every Department.
DIRECT ACTION
Over the past 1\ terms
some of the Union policy
achievements with the ad-
ministration are as follows:
1 One representative on the
AA/IC merger committee
2 Money for sabbatical year
for president
3 Money for NUS
4 Diversification discussion
5 Senior common room sur-
vey
6 Improvement of Southside
refectory
7 Representation on the De-
velopment committee
8 The BoS " decision to
decide "
Direct action or threat of
direct action were not really
involved in 2 or 3 but they
were involved in 1, 6 and 8
and probably to some extent
in the others. The morator-
ium of course achieved a lot
in strengthening Nus's hand
in negotiations and press
publicity for our policies to
influence and embarrass
powerful people. (Most re-
cent press coverage is in the
Architectural Journal and in
the Kensington News). Direct
action has worked in other
colleges (people who don't
want us to use direct action
will probably deny it has had
any effect). I see the useful-
ness of action to achieve
policies as:
1 To embarrass authorities
(in press publicity)
2 To hurt authorities (like
industrial power)
3 To show our strength
4 To increase awareness (my
election platform)
The fact that an occupa-
tion was discussed by ICU
last Thursday is I think very
significant, by March 5 our
position will have crystalised
so that further discussion of
action will be more realistic.
Imaginative ideas are coming
in (see Council report in Feli-
city) . . . but bring more!
In the last FELIX I said,
"Imperial College seems to
be arrogant and inflexible,
incapable of understanding
other ideas or recognising the
validity of different con-
cepts of academic organisa-
tion."
This is still true but the
ferment is on. Join in the dis-
cussions . . . . nobble election
candidates . . .. nobble pro-
fessors. Come to the U G M
on March 5—CHANGE IC.
Continued from Page 3
sent to the decay of Western civilisation.
I feel that it is imperative that this trend be halted im-
mediately. It is precisely because the top 2\% of man-
kind are honourable, decent, well meaning, etc. that they
are shy, or at any rate are not brash or extrovert. What has
happened everywhere in the past is that the lower intelligence
of the equivalents of 'Dustmen, Navvies, Dockyardies and
I.C. Maintenance Men' is perpetuated as they have attracted
females for mating purposes, while the men of higher
intelligence are less prepossessing, with the result that however
intelligent a race (nation) may be to begin with, it gradually
becomes more stupid (and the females even more ugly),
and this is entirely due to the mating habits of the females.
As I see it, the only way for. this 'Apple Rot' to be
averted is for the female to take on the 'search and find'
part of the mating operation. The female should try to find
male friends among her fellow students, and not wait to be
approached by the more extroverted of the males.
The anonymice obviously consider themselves grade
1 prizes — if so, they should choose, and would be unlikely
to be rebuffed.
In conclusion, Paris issues a challenge. If anyone can
produce enough females of a high enough standard to make
judging worth-while, and publishes their photographs, the
winner will receive a golden apple, with subsidiary prizes
for runners-up. This competition is open until the 10th June
1970. PARIS.
P.S. Any female wishing to enter the competition may obtain
a diet sheet by enquiring from Paris (under P in Union
Letter-Rack).
I n t h e S e r v a n t s '
Q u a r t e r s
Dear Sir
Les Ebdon's article was, as we have a right to expect,
erudite and provocative. He raises many of the problems
associated with student newspapers, but without exploring
other areas of conflict or carrying through some of the issues
he does raise to their logical conclusions.
Another problem of great importance is the old chestnut
of 'the freedom of the press'. Surely no-one would dispute
that the 'freedom of the individual' must always override the
'freedom of the press' (whatever those phrases may mean).
If, as Les says, "Us Union types belong in the servants'
quarters rather than in the throne room . . . " then I contend
that this is no less true of FELIX.
In moving on to discuss the 'quality' and 'ideals' of a
newspaper we come to the real meat of my criticisms of
F E L I X . As Les so perceptively says, "There is something . . . .
about the standard of a college which can be told by the
virility of its newspaper." Quite, but Les then moves on to
outline two facets of the ideal newspaper: the discovery of
a little literary talent, and the deflation of the ego of some
swelling Union official. Come off it; surely we can aim higher
than an (occasionally) well written News of the World.
The last ingredient of Les' recipe for a well-done F E L I X
is that it should be a 'well produced, informed, independant
newspaper' Precisely, but to that list of adjectives I should
like to add a few: responsible, serious where necessary,
committed, intelligent.
Any growth in critical awareness in the student body
over the last year has not come about primarily as a result
of the efforts of F E L I X . Indeed, coincident with a remarkable
increase in the seriousness, importance and level of sophistica-
tion of Union policies has come a lowering of the level of
debate in F E L I X . It is, happily, showing signs of picking up,
but still has far to go. Please, F E L I X , show that you are will-
ing to treat serious matters seriously (diversification, repre-
sentation, Vice-chancellors report, etc.). Show that you are
capable of arguing out these matters intelligently, logically,
and clearly, even if your conclusions differ from 'Union
Policy'. Only then can you fully realise your potential: to
inform every student, to commit yourself to the issues, and,
having gained the respect of the readers, to influence the
outcome of these issues.
Yours sincerely,
J O H N G O O D M A N .

