10 felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
L
ooking forward to a career
in investment banking?
Got an internship for the
summer? Looking forward
to a career in investment
banking? Young entrepreneur Yannick
Roux offers a refreshing new perspec-
tive for business-minded students who
aren’t quite ready to sell their souls to
the big banks.
On paper, Yannick seems to be
shaped in the same mould as every
other suit that speeds past you on a
Monday morning. He’s got a degree
in Business Administration from Boc-
coni University in Milan and a Masters
of Science in Accounting & Finance
from LSE, and he worked at Macquar-
ie Capital for two years - exactly two
years. He emphasises, “I quit on the
exact same day that they hired me two
years before”. But it’s quickly apparent
that behind the CV hides a person with
the courage to quit the rat race to make
his own way in the world, “You don’t
have to follow the masses and do what
everyone else is doing, because there is
more to life than investment banks.”
There probably isn’t anyone more
qualified than Yannick Roux to offer
that advice. At the age of 25, he quit a
cushy job at the Australian investment
bank Macquarie to start his own busi-
ness in an uncertain economy. Why
would anyone want to do that, I ask?
“If you think about it rationally, if
you have a choice between starting up
a business and buying a lottery ticket,
you should always buy the ticket. But
ever since I was an undergraduate, I’ve
wanted to run my own business. I did a
semester at Babson College in Boston,
which is number one in Entrepreneur-
ship. Every student at Babson had their
own business and when I heard these
people talk about their businesses dur-
ing class I got very excited. Since then
I’ve known that I did not want to work
for someone else.”
But is it just about being your own
boss? Surely you could work hard for
this or that promotion, become head of
your team, head of a particular division
in this or that area, but for Yannick it’s
not simply about having power, “No,
it’s about wanting to create something
from scratch on your own. You know
the feeling? Wanting to be 100% re-
sponsible for it. Seeing something go-
ing from zero to somewhere is great.”
This is probably why he seems so up-
Ever thought about taking the plunge?
Kadhim Shubber interviews Likebees founder Yannick Roux about the risks and rewards of starting-up
beat as we’re talking in the Union Quad.
After years of dreaming Yannick finally
launched Likebees.com in March with
his life-long best friend (“Whether I
would strongly recommend it [part-
nering with his best friend], I’ll tell you
in some more time.”) The company
organises heavily discounted deals on
otherwise expensive activities like Pi-
lates classes, haircuts at top salons or
meals at fine restaurants by utilising
the power of mass-purchasing through
its online community. If enough peo-
ple buy into a deal, the deal is activated;
otherwise it’s cancelled. The idea origi-
nated from the popular US-based web-
site Groupon.
“After I left Macquarie I took a few
months out to think about what I
would do. During my years at the bank
Yannick Roux has always had a passion for taking up exciting, new challeneges - a vital trait for budding entrepreneurs
“...rationally, if
you have a choice
between starting
up a business and
buying a lottery
ticket, you should
always buy the
ticket“
“anyone with an
internet connection
has got ideas, what
makes a business
is how you execute
your ideas“
“You don’t have to
follow the masses...
there is more to life
than investment
banks“
are commodities, anyone with a brain
or an internet connection has got ide-
as, what makes a business is how you
execute your ideas. How do you drive
traffic to your website in a smart way?
How do you create an engaged com-
munity? How do you scale, and how do
you monetise that scale? We looked at
Groupon and thought ‘That’s a clever
business model, you don’t need a huge
scale and it’s easily monetisable. How
can we make it better?’
Nowadays people are willing to share
everything, they are on Facebook most
of their time anyway. At the time we
were banking on the fact that we would
be the only ones doing this in London
and in fact in Europe. So we thought,
let’s do this now, let’s go.”
But in this new internet economy,
Yannick stresses, it is the technical
specialists, and not the businessmen
who have the edge. As he tells it, the
guy who knows how to code his own
website is miles ahead of any Business
Studies graduate.
“What I’ve lacked is the technical
background – how can this work? How
long will it take? I could never tell. I had
no background in computer science so
I always had to ask someone else. If I
could do my studies again, I would do
something technical so if I had an idea
I could spend one night doing a proto-
type. Right now I have twenty ideas I
want to do but I cannot, because I do
not know how. If you can build your
own ideas, all you have to do is spend a
few nights on it. And then you show it
to people, get them excited about your
product, see what they think. Right
now I cannot create something on my
own. I have to pay people and so it is
not worth it and I do not do it. But if
you can do it yourself, then do it. The
worst that could happen is that you
spend two nights making something
that is not valuable. Otherwise, find
a technical co-founder who is willing
to code in exchange for equity, but it’s
hard to excite developers with equity,
they like cash a lot more.”
It’s been a long journey for Yannick
and looking back, it’s obvious that it
hasn’t been straightforward. Without
a clear idea of what he wanted to do,
he found himself buffeted and pres-
sured by the storms of ambition at
LSE, “When I got there I still had no
idea what I wanted to do. But everyone
I saw had done applications to fifteen
banks. So I thought ‘Wow, I must be
late for something.’”
He ended up following the crowd and
headed for the big banks like everyone
else, with limited success, “I started
applying to banks, for everything – I
applied for derivatives, cash equi-
ties, trading, IB... I had no clue what
I wanted to do. I did some interviews
where I got grilled, I didn’t have any in-
ternships on my CV and of course the
banks like you a lot more if you’ve been
there before.”
It’s difficult to pinpoint where ex-
actly the young, perhaps naïve Yannick
Roux transformed into the confident
entrepreneur he is today, but I sus-
pect he was forged somewhere in the
furnace of his time as an investment
banker. “You do not have any time to
think about other things in life when
you work for an investment bank, you
work so hard that your brain is com-
I compiled a long list of business ideas,
both online and offline. Given the size
of our pockets, it was obvious to use the
internet because it’s the least capital-
intensive place to start. Obviously the
risk is that without a super-technical
idea with a lot of IP [intellectual prop-
erty], anyone can copy you. But ideas

