11
felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk BUSINESS
Yannick’s top tips for budding
entrepreneurs
Save money
If by any chance you get into a well-paid investment bank, make sure you do not lose track
of the value of money. You all dream about the lifestyle that money can buy you, but really,
let me tell you, it’s not all about playing the high-roller at a posh club. Save money now so
if one day you decide to start your business you will have the funds to do it; if you spend all
your salary, all you can do is keep running the rat race! Another good way to save money is
using Likebees.com.
Go for it!
If you have ideas, go for it. If you do not do it now, you will always regret it. When you are
thirty, you will think, “Why did I not do that when I was twenty?” When I am thirty-five, I
will probably not leave a job to start my own business because by then I will have a family
and so on. You either do it now or you forget about it. And find a co-founder, possibly with
a different set of skills.
Network
If you go on meetup.com there are tons of events in London on any given area of business
every day. I was able to build a network in two months because I was in London. That
is how I found the guy who developed the website. That is how I met some potential
investors. You have to network. It is the best way to be aware of what is going in your
industry and meet the relevant people.
Iterate
Nowadays, when you set up a website, you need to iterate constantly with your customers.
You make a prototype, which might work, it might not work. Reid Hoffman, a famous
investor and entrepreneur in Silicon Valley, once said that if you are not ashamed of your
prototype, you have launched too late. If you can find ten people who like what you’re
doing, they will help you get there. The best way to go is by iteration. Have a product, show
it to your friends, get them to try it and love it, get feedback. Then go to investors.
Play the game
In the internet space, no one knows who the underdog is. You can look a lot bigger and
more organised than what you are; appearance plays a lot. Offline is similar: have nice
looking slides, flashy business cards, dress smartly.
But the other thing is you have to manage expectations. You can’t bullshit. You get people
to take you seriously by being honest. Particularly with clients. You want them to come
back to you.
pletely washed out of everything else.
So your either burn out or make a
decision like mine. That is why they
pay so much and make you work so
hard, because otherwise you would
just leave. Money is a pain-killer. And
then obviously after the crash I realised
even the financial rewards I expected
were not there. That’s when my brain
went back to what I wanted to be do-
ing. For example I really hated not be-
ing able to plan a holiday. Every time I
made plans, some big deal would hap-
pen that week by coincidence. The first
time was okay, the second time well
okay, but after a while...”
He trails off but the end of the sen-
tence is obvious and refreshing, “...after
a while, you quit the rat race and fol-
low your dream of starting your own
business”.
So after years of following the
crowds, and heading in the wrong di-
rection, Yannick is finally the person
that he wanted to be all those years
ago during that life-changing semes-
ter at Babson College.
He runs his own company, he’s cre-
ating something from the ground up
and he’s happy. “If I’m up working
until 3 or 4, it’s okay. I decide, I could
just go to bed. It’s up to me.”
But if it all doesn’t work out, I ask,
does he have a backup plan?
“Yes, I do, but I’m not doing this
because I want to get rich; I’m do-
ing it because it is an experience. If
it does not work, I will do something
else. If I run out of money, I’ll find
another job and save as much money
as possible to start my next business.
Although at school they tell you that
you need a good, safe job – that is not
all there is to life. I do not tell any-
one to avoid investment banking, but
make sure you enjoy it and take time
to think if it is what you really want
to do with your life. If everyone is
telling you to go to Goldman Sachs,
question it.”
What is Likebees all
about anyway?
L
ikebees.com is a website that features discounted deals on things to
do in London (from restaurants to Pilates classes, from charity events
to spas and hair salons). Deals run one at a time and for a limited pe-
riod of time: if enough people buy before the deal ends, then everyone
gets it, otherwise the deal is cancelled and no one is charged. And for
each friend that you refer to Likebees, you can make £5 in credit!
Competition Time
Likebees is offering £50 free credit to
two lucky Imperial students. Simply go to
http://imperial.likebees.com to qualify
for the competition
You can contact Yannick via @yanroux
on Twitter

