12
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
I
t certainly feels like this week’s
Arts is calling upon our more
colourful, psychic sensibilities.
Whether the theatre is your
thing, or if you are more of an art per-
son, this week’s articles should brighten
up the exam gloom!
This week we have made room for
more images as well, to fill the centre
of the newspaper with colour – I think
you’ll agree! So what exactly have we
on offer? Caz Knight has been busy in
London’s theatres: an excellent pro-
duction of the beloved, swinging Hair
is currently showing at the Guilgud
Theatre and elsewhere, at the Peacock,
the subject of neuroscience is under the
limelight. The excellent Les doigts de la
main – a French dance troupe perform
a physical, poetic interpretation of vary-
ing mental illnesses. Clearly it is a spec-
tacle, with sensitive undertones.
As for me, I have engaged with one
difficult subject: the display of a work
of art by recognised criminal Charles
Bronson (about whom a feature-length
film was out in cinemas only recent-
ly) in the public space of the London
Underground.
Elsewhere, I had the pleasure of
visiting Pick Me Up – a novel con-
temporary art fair, held this year at
Somerset House. Graphic art is quite
different from traditional works of art,
and delighted me in quite a different
way. Hopefully we will be seeing more
of this in the future. As for the upcom-
ing weeks, there are a few good shows
in the private galleries of Mayfair and
of course, the larger galleries also.
Purely
psychedelic
RosieMilton
RosieMilton Arts Editor
Psychotic? Just plain Psy with ‘Les doigts de la main’
Caz KnightgoestothePeacockTheatretowatchthedelicatelychoreographedinterpretationofmentalillnessonthestage
O
ne in four people will
be diagnosed with a
mental illness in their
life. The human brain
each day consumes the
equivalent energy of two bananas and
contains around 100 billion neurons,
each making up to 10,000 synapses.
It is not often that a show starts with
the audience being given a very short
introduction to neuroscience as the
spotlight is shined on them, but thus
starts Psy at Sadler’s Wells’ Peacock
Theatre – the latest energetic offering
from French-Canadian dance troupe
‘Les 7 doigts de la main’ (the 7 Fingers).
It has not been often, either, that the
subject of mental illness has been ex-
plored, portrayed by and given rise to
such an explosion of dance, trapeze
swinging, gymnastics, knife throw-
ing, somersaulting and more. The
eleven member troupe, many of whom
trained at the National Circus School
in Montreal, each assume the identity
of one mental illness and adjust their
performance styles accordingly so that
every motion, jump and expression il-
lustrates and brings alive perfectly the
nature of their character’s condition.
The eclectic mix of agoraphobia, ma-
nia, addiction, OCD, insomnia and
amnesia to name a few is oddly remi-
niscent of Ken Kesey’s One Flew Over
the Cuckoos Nest (a dance version of
which is actually coming to the Pea-
cock Theatre in June), without being
constrained by the rigid rules of a psy-
chiatric ward. Psy balances the mix of
individual and group routines as well
as interludes of comical dialogue, with
each member of the troupe given the
chance to convey their mentally ill per-
sona via their specific talents, as well as
coming together to execute some finely
honed routines together. An especially
impressive feat of choreography was
the juggling ‘en masse’ involving all
eleven dancers. There was also Johnny
the constantly horny Addict whirl-
ing about in his German wheel; Suzi,
with Intermittent Explosive Disorder
astounding all with her knife manipu-
lation skills to the sound of slow and
deliberate dubstep and a very sad and
moving scene where John? Joe? Jim?
the Amnesiac (tries to) remember his
juggling skills against an urban back-
drop, swapping his props for juggling
pins and pins for props.
The team chemistry and synchronic-
ity is impressive and evident as they
move seamlessly with and around each
other – moving as if part of one inter-
connected organism, their routines
flowing and changing like an Escher
drawing. The playlist that accompa-
nies the wild routine moves between
the sad and classical and the very mod-
ern and includes music from the film
Amelie by Yann Tiersen, hip hop and
the very apt song Frontier Psychiatrist
(“…that boy needs therapy…”) by the
Avalanches which plays as Dexter with
Multiple Personality Disorder vaults
and catapults off his teeterboard.
However, it seems unfair to single out
any of the routines for they were all jaw
dropping and all the dancers equally
talented, performing their pieces with
precision and to perfection: never has
the audience ever broken into applause
so frequently in any show before, end-
ing by giving the 7 Fingers an extreme-
ly well deserved standing ovation.
Psy continues at the Peacock Thea-
tre, Portugal Street, until May 15th.
Tickets start at 10 pounds.
T
he recent installation of
an artwork by criminal
Charles Bronson on the
London Underground by
apparent guerilla group
Art Below invites the reconsideration
of morals in several areas.
It has become a question of correct-
ness: political and social. How can we
justify admiring the work of a violent
criminal in our public places? After the
current political climate and the excite-
ment of the general election, we are see-
ing every law and promise of moral jus-
tice strapped down and tightened until
the country is practically turning blue.
This attitude smacks of currying favour.
As a cultural aesthetician I support the
chance to see the inner-workings –
some call it soul, Vasari called it ‘genius’
– of a criminalised thug, by the visual
transliteration of his artworks. My curi-
osity in this respect, is what has allowed
me to consider his work. However, in
traditional terms of competence, Bron-
son is somewhat lacking. His drawings
would benefit from a more rounded
form to appear less flat. The reality is
closer to the dozy, fantastical doodlings
of a day-dreaming schoolboy than the
next workings of a Hans Bellmer.
The subject matter has raised the
most protests: a head with three gri-
macing faces, two with bared teeth and
tongues hanging out, the schizophrenic
body buckled down into a straight-
jacket, clearly labelled ‘restraint’
. The
cartoon-like style is distantly similar to
the animation of The Yellow Submarine
(1968). The message implies a disturbed
mind: whether of the artist himself, or
merely of the character he has depicted,
the implication is there.
The problem with Art Below’s in-
tentions is that they are very obviously
capitalizing on Bronson’s celebrity sta-
tus. It is unlikely that any inmate of this
country’s penitentiary establishment
has managed to reach the public to his
extent with their work, before or even
again, under any other circumstances.
Perhaps we will be seeing a series of in-
mate’s works, with Bronson’s the first to
catch our attention, or possibly a slew
of bizarre celebrities’ attempts at art.
Whatever the case, Art Below have cer-
tainly embraced the modern more of
star exploitation with this affair. -RM
Charles Bronson: criminal and artist apparently
‘Triptophrenia’ at Angel tube station
One of the acrobatic displays as performed by the Seven Fingers dance troupe for their riveting performance of Psy

