13
felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A colourful new fair rolls into London
Rosie Milton goes to Somerset House to see the work of up-and-coming contemporary graphic artists
S
o the first fair of the year for
me, Pick Me Up: Contempo-
rary Graphic Art Fair – held
last week at Somerset House
– is apparently the first of
its kind in this country. Set out along
two floors in a wing of the regal Som-
erset House, the event was welcoming
and intimate (as opposed to the over-
whelming Frieze).
The décor, by way of primary-col-
oured arrows and shapes, immedi-
ately tells you that the contents will
offer simple forms. This is the attrac-
tion of graphic art. The experience is
something like being in a sweet shop:
so much candy on display you want to
collect and consume. I found myself
assessing the prices of several of the
prints, eager to add something to my
(small, but growing) collection of art.
To get an idea, digital prints by graphic
artist James Joyce ranged from £85-
£95 for one of five editions.
The prints that caught my eye were
one large-scale graphic of a plastic
fish soy sauce container (such as you
find often with take-away sushi), al-
most empty of its liquid and another
of a large black droplet with the words
‘we’re doomed’ illustrating light catch-
ing the curved edge.
Much is pleasing about the graphic
style and illustration: crisp, bright
colours, simple signs and text are
combined, resulting in a composition
usually found on consumer prod-
uct packaging or those achingly cool,
glossy urban magazines, whose pur-
pose is rarely clear. Here then, the pur-
pose of Pick Me Up is to bring recog-
nition to graphic art in market terms.
I would have to agree that I would be
happy having 85% of what was on dis-
play here, than much of the conceptual
work found at Frieze. At least prints,
drawings and 3D models are tangible,
as opposed to an idea.
To expand on the media used in the
displays, there were not only digital
prints, but also screen printing, block
printing (actually live by the studio
Peepshow, set up in one niche of the
room), textile prints, illustration,
hand-drawn graphics and 3D mod-
els such as painted wooden toys. In a
separate room a film was playing and
in another niche of the main room was
a stall displaying the treasures of an
East London printing shop, Nobrow.
As I pored over the rich illustrations,
I caught a whiff of freshly printed ink
and the boy sitting on the stall con-
firmed to me that these picture books
were hot off the press.
Although there was a slight sense
of art-school-amateurism about the
show – the opening gambit being “20
up-and-coming-artists”, the work was
good and widely ranging in subject
matter, style and media.
Still considering purchasing an art-
work when I came to the end of the
exhibition, a room lined with an exclu-
sive prints for the show by each of the
artists seemed a more appealing and
‘cheaper’ option for an art-show-tour-
ist like myself. I purchased a cheery or-
ange illustration of an Indian girl with
a child on her back for £20, delighted
that I could take a piece of the show
with me. I will definitely be making a
bee-line for this show next year, if it is
to continue.
Anthony Burrill, ‘Pick Me Up: Contemporary Graphic Art Fair’, 2009 Nobrow, Miscellaneous Nobrow Press publications, courtesy: Nobrow. Nobrow is located at http://www.nobrow.net
Andrew Rae, ‘King of Beasts’, 2008-09, courtesy and copyright: Peepshow. Peepshow had a pop-up shop at the show

