14 felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS
F
orty-three years on and
Hair is still “blowing the
roof off” our theatres − ac-
cording to both London
producer Cameron Mackin-
tosh and this reviewer. The American
tribal love-rock musical was written
by young people for young people and
marked the beginning of a time where
said young people began to actually
want to go to the theatre. Daring, ab-
surd, surreal, lewd and crude all at
once, Hair is also both fun and deeply
political, tracking the lives of a tribe of
New York hippies as they rebel against
the government, ‘square’ parents and
the draft. Free love, free acid and free
flowing hair abound but the looming
threat and arrival of the draft throw
hippy Claude into moral indecision as
he deliberates over whether to resist
the draft or resist pacifism.
With book and lyrics by Gerome
Ragni and James Rado (spotted in the
audience looking very well preserved
for his seventy eight years) and mu-
sic by Galt Macdermot, this colourful
and groovy show began life in 1967
off-Broadway and has since enjoyed
lengthy runs on both sides of the At-
lantic as well as countless recordings
of the soundtrack, a film adaptation
and several awards including a Tony
Award and a Drama Desk Award won
by the 2009 Broadway cast. The same
cast and director Diana Paulus have
now been whisked over to London for
the next six months to continue in the
West End for the current production at
the Gielgud theatre.
The excitement before the show was
utterly palpable and continued that
way throughout every second of the
following two and a half hours, largely
due to the electric cast who brought
the forty songs, multiple dance rou-
tines and plentiful comedy to life. The
cast members are evidently completely
in love with each other, confirmed by
‘tribe member’ Crystal Jones speaking
after the show – and is it any wonder,
following month after month of per-
forming love-and-drug-fuelled Be-Ins
and salacious choreography. The fun
they have together is highly infectious.
Wonderful cast aside, this produc-
tion of Hair is also magnificent from
a purely technical point of view. Stage,
costume, lighting and sound design-
ers, not to mention the stellar on-stage
band, have come together beautifully
to create an on-stage psychedelic ha-
ven which creates a powerful atmos-
phere throughout, especially during
Claude’s last acid trip before being sent
off to Nam (where a Black, female Abe
Lincoln makes an appearance).
In true hippy style, the audience are
hugged, touched, given flowers and in-
vited to a Be-In. Those in the front row
also get the special treat of a close up
view of loose cannon Berger’s (played
by Will Swenson) loincloth-clad pack-
age. The show culminates in the inter-
active Be-In where the audience are
tugged from their seats and invited to
rave away to Let the Sunshine In as the
cast dole out more hugs.
Not only did Hair get more young
people going to the theatre but it also
paved the way for rock music to be in-
troduced into theatre. Now we have Je-
sus Christ Superstar, the Rocky Horror
Show and We Will Rock You, to name
a few.
Director and critic Charles Marowitz
wrote of London’s 1968 production of
the musical, “it is almost entirely nour-
ished by the current generation's ha-
tred of what its 'senior citizens' have al-
lowed America to become”. Words that
echo uncannily what many of today’s
youth feel towards the hippy/baby
boomer generation regarding global
warming. Will such feelings of resent-
ment spawn a modern day equivalent
of Hair in protest?
Regardless, this vanguard musical
is brimming with great music, super
songs and a beautiful cast. To miss it
would be criminal.
The Broadway cast of Hair continues
until September. Thereafter an English
cast takes over.
Let the sun shine! Hallelujahs with Hair
Caz Knight takes her 21st-century sentiments to a re-adaptation of the hit 1960s musical at the Gielgud Theatre
The cast in all their rapturous, colourful glory on stage at the Gielgud. The show is said to be extremely inviting – with the cast members actually beckoning members of the audience onto the stage!
The smouldering protagonist himself: Berger, as played by dude Will Swenson

