16 felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tweet @felixcatnip
Tweet @felixcatnip
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
THE SUMMER TERM:
DOWNHILL SLOPE OR WELCOME TO HELL?
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text: 07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
The Election: And The
Winner Is...
It’s going to be Cameron, defo, as much as I hate to admit it.
Even if he is a posh git with an unnaturally smooth forehead.
First Year Computing Student
I agree with Nick.
Third Year Biologist
Do you think the reason Cameron keeps bringing up these
people he met is because he ran over a prostitute in the
Conservative party bus and is desperately trying to establish
an alibi?
Second Year Medic
If it’s a hung parliament, does that mean that Brown and Clegg
have to fuse into Prime Minister Clown? Bregg?!
First Year Engineer
Drunken-mate photo of the week
Drunk mates make the perfect canvas for shaving foam masterpieces. When
this guy woke up, he found himself as a prize exhibit in the Tate Modern.
Got a picture of
your mate being
an absolute waste
of oxygen? Well,
get your camera
out and email your
drunken-mate
photos to catnip.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
I
t’s a funny thing; anonymity. I have not quite pinned
down what I want this column to be about, its raison
d’etre if you will. I don’t even know if this constitutes a
column or as I write whether this will make felix.
Anyway, as the name suggests, I do enjoy a certain Ameri-
can drama and as a result, thought that I might amuse my-
self with certain musings I had during my exam period. It is
also an excuse for not concentrating on regurgitating endless
reams of exam-rot. There were certain things that kept me
going and it was my idea to share some with you. Things like
the bittersweet smell of a toilet that the previous occupant
had chosen to disembowel himself on and had the nerve to
look you in the eye as he watched you walk into that wall of
striking stench. Or how about the savages who mummy never
taught to say ‘thank you’ when someone holds a door open for
you...assholes.
So where was I? I hope that I am allowed to continue in my
anonymity and evolve this contribution. As many of you fel-
low closet Gossip Girl enthusiasts will appreciate I think that
this paper can do with more contributions from the readers.
So next time you see someone on their lonesome reading a
Felix engage them on the topic of this oﬀering. Live a little
and tell the spellcheck to screw itself (not advised in a course-
work submission). If you think of something that really gets
your goat then hit me up and I will vent through the veil of
anonymity [read Cowardice] with unbridled passion and il-
literacy.
From the lower south side,
Gossip Boyo
A letter over toilets
With numbers (and other things), Aunty McPickle likes them the bigger the better!
Dear Aunty McPickle,
I am writing to you in a state of sheer
panic. I have recently participated in
an experiMENTAL foursome with
three mechengers. It was all a bit of
drunken fun.
The problems is I am now carrying a
womb-curse of a baby. It was dark at
the time, I was disorientated but I’ve
narrowed it down to two potential
fathers, thanks to one cumming on
another boy’s leg.
What should I do?
Big Phil
Dear Phil,
I am already acquainted with this story,
as are most of your peers. I suggest you
dig up the video evidence that is doing
the rounds. You should be able to piece
it together from that. Hope you sort it
out.
Aunty McPickle xxx
Dear Aunty McPickle,
I had a recent epiphany during a
group sexual encounter that in-
volved several close friends. Secre-
tions were flying back and forth.
On reaching a gyrating climax, my
friend pulled out and exploded on
my leg.
My initial horror was short-lived
and a wave of joy over came me.
I’ve since been fantasising about his
love-juice and can’t bring myself to
wash it off. Is this normal?
Anonymous
Dear Anonymous,
Please see response below. (I think this
means you can wash)
Aunty McPickle xxx
Dear Aunty McPickle,
Whilst taking part in a sexual team
sport, I came on a teammate’s leg.
It appeared to be an accident but
was actually a passionate sign of my
deepest affections. Finally acting out
my leg fantasy has made me realise
I need him more than ever. What to
do?
Barry LAD Chuckle
Dear Barry,
Coincidently I have been contacted by
the concerned party and suggest you
pursue a long-term arrangement to
satisfy both your needs. Please let us
know how your new found relation-
ship develops.
Aunty McPickle xxx
It’s Time for some afternoon delight!

