Stand for
nomination!
Colours nominations open now
What are Colours?
Colours are a type of award that Imperial College Union can give to anybody to recognise
the service, contribution and dedication of someone to the Union.
There are five types of Colours that are broadly separated into two groups. The first
three Colours, which are Half Colours, Full Colours and Outstanding Service Awards, are
awarded in recognition of one year’s service to the Union. The other two Colours, which
are Fellowships and Distinguished Fellowships, are awarded in recognition of many year’s
service to the Union.
Who can be nominated for Colours?
Anybody can be nominated for these awards, except the Union Sabbatical Officers and the
Felix Editor.
Who can nominate someone for Colours?
Any Imperial student can complete a nomination form, but it’s best not to nominate
yourself!
What happens if you are awarded a Colours
Being awarded a Colours is a great honour and privilege. Those who receive these awards
are presented with an award certificate at a ceremony, a tie or pin, and in the case of the
higher awards a gift like an engraved tankard or Honorary Life membership of the Union.
The Union keeps a record of all the people awarded Colours.
What do you need to do to be awarded a Colour?
• To be awarded Half Colours you need to have made a “positive contribution to the general
life of the Union in an extraordinary fashion.”
• To be awarded Full Colours you have to “repeatedly, through outstanding achievements,
over the course of the year, have made a significant contribution to the life of the Union.”
• For an Outstanding Service Award “you will have displayed continuous outstanding
achievement across a broad spectrum of Union activities.” Few of these are given out,
only five a year at most.
• The Fellowship and Distinguished Fellowship awards are much harder to get as they are
are based on the contribution the awardee has made over a length of time.
• To receive a Union Fellowship award you need to “have continuously served the Union in
an exceptional manner.” Very few of these are given out.
• To receive a Distinguished Fellowship you need to have “served the Union in a selfless
and dedicated manner which is both exceptional and beyond reproach.”
If you don’t know which award to nominate someone for then choose the one you feel is
appropriate and the Colours Committee will change if necessary.
How can I nominate someone?
Nominations are open from Tuesday 4th May 2010 to midnight Tuesday 25 May at 12 noon.
Nomination forms can be downloaded from the Union website and should be emailed to
colours@imperial.ac.uk.
You’ll have to give the name of the nominee, the award you are nominating them for and
tell us, in less than 200 words, why you think they should get it. Also include your name
and CID.
What happens then?
Your nominations will be considered by the Union’s Colours Committee and then
the results will be announced towards the end of the term in Felix and successful
nominees will be given their awards at a Colours ceremony which will take place on
the 11th June in the Union Dining Hall at 6.30pm.
Nominations are now open for the 2010
Summer Elections.
This year’s elections are especially important
because we will be electing a Sabbatical
Officer to fill the Deputy President
(Education) role – which is now vacant
following the resignation of last term’s
winning candidate – as well as numerous
Union Officers.
We are also electing people to stand on
a new board: the Ents Committee.
This committee will have its
first meeting later this
term. It will convene
termly to give opinion
on how the Union’s
Entertainments are
being run, and suggest
any improvements.
The Ents Committee
will also play a big part
in a new initiative we will
be implementing next term,
currently tentatively known as “Club
Nights”. Next year, once Metric is open,
the Union will host Club Nights fortnightly
on Thursdays and Saturdays. Union clubs
and societies will have the opportunity to
use Metric to host themed parties on these
nights, aimed at the entire student body, not
just members of their society.
If your society wants to host a Club Night,
you will have to submit an idea to the
Ents Committee, which will then vote to
determine the best proposal. We will be
taking submissions for the autumn 2010
Club Nights later this term
once the Ents Committee has
formed.
For fuller information on Club Nights, head to
the Phase 3 blog: imperialcollegeunion.org/
phase3.
If you would like to be on this committee and
help shape the Union’s Entertainments, or
many other facets of the Union, make sure
you stand in these 2010 Summer Elections.
The full list of positions available is:
• Deputy President (Education) – this is a
full-time, paid position requiring the winning
candidate to take a year out of their studies.
• 1 x Student Trustee
• 3 x Ents Committee
Members
• Equal Opportunities
Officer
• Council Chair
• RAG Chair
• CAG Chair
For more information on the
elections, including descriptions
of each position, campaign
rules and a full timetable head online to
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections where
you can download a Candidates Pack.
To stand for election head to the voting site:
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote.
Nominations close on the 17 May at 23:59
Voting opens 24 May at 00:01 and closes on
the 27 May at 23:59
Results announced 28 May.
2010 Summer Elections –
Nominations open NOW!
Summer
2010
Bright candidates
required!
To stand for nomination head to:
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote.

