FREE Credit Card Bonuses
FREE Expenses
22 felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
TRAVEL
Travel Editor
Travel Editor Dylan Lowe
Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Gap year free of charge? Globetrotting penniless? felix seeks ways to take advantage of the tourism industry’s
little nuggets, and examines how money-saving these freebies truly are in planning your big trip
Experiences don’t cost anything
N
othing is truly free nowadays. De facto. Don’t
succumb to the sweet enticing promises of free-
bies thinking it’s an absolute loss-free advantage,
because even during our runs of ‘fortune’, money
still leaks out of our wallets like a prickled barrel.
Needless to say, this applies to the travel industry as well: like the
online surveys you fill in to win luxury holiday packages, which
is preceded by an Internet bill; like the free-boat-ride-for-three
that comes with a box of cereal that you purchased. And it isn’t
just the monetary stuff we’re talking about: time, energy, moral
obligations, all indication that the free-of-charge ideal simply
cannot exist.
Despair not, fellow travellers. I didn’t imply that there’s noth-
ing out there that will help you save a few bucks when you’re out
on the road. Combine a little bit of wit and resourcefulness, a
dash of corporate promotional giveaways, plus a whack load of
genuine charity and hospitality, you might just have yourself a
concoction that will help you patch up that barrel of yours.
And so we analyse some ways you can adapt to travel without
having to casting a single penny.
FREE Tours
FREE Transport
If in desperation, cardboard boxes are always free. Though
sleeping rough isn’t something felix advocates. Well, not say-
ing it isn’t fun or eye-opening – well, I’m drifting into a tangent
now. There are many online communities that offer to facilitate
house swaps, couch lending etc. among travellers.
CouchSurfing
Oh CouchSurfing (www.couchsurfing.org), that absolutely
legendary network that seems to hang on the tip of every
traveller’s tongue. It is the non-profitable organisation’s mis-
sion to connect travellers with locals, and judging by how
often it dominates as topic of travel-related conversations
since founded in 2004, there is little doubt that it’s a phe-
nomal success.
For the benefit of those unfamiliar with CouchSurfing, it
is a website where members host a traveller in their homes,
and/or themselves being hosted by fellow members, by prior
exchange and arrangement online. Bluntly, a free bed given
that you would provide likewise, though no such obligation
is compulsory.
Verdict:
Nobody can refuse a free bed. I do, however, avoid Couch-
Surfing due to the simple fact that I can’t host anyone
– sometimes moral obligations can be more demanding
than coerced cooperation. Some travellers may have trust
issues and feel insecure in strangers’ homes, which is un-
derstandable. Another similar network worth considering
is The Hospitality Club (www.hospitalityclub.org), which
came into existence in 2000 and is eponymously hospital-
ity-themed. Being one of the older kids in the neighbour-
hood it has a more extensive database of members than
CouchSurfing and is definitely worth your while.
Hike till you drop
You can always consider the option of walking. It certainly
isn’t the most appealing idea ever, though it does have immense
health and spiritual benefits. Britt Das, who runs the charity
‘Footprints for Freedom’, walked from her native Netherlands
to Tibet to raise awareness for world peace.
On the flip side, both physical prowess and mental toughness
are tested. Cautionary tales include Matt Boyle’s quest to trek
from Bristol to India, whose journey fell short of completion
when he gave up in Calais due to a ‘language barrier’.
Verdict:
Too much effort, says the Travel Editor, and infinitely
unappealing to those who are slothful and unfit, both
traits that he possesses.
Hitchhiking
You know me: I cannot recommend this enough. Far from be-
ing a lost art, it’s very much alive – not only does it exist as RAG
or charity events, many hitchhikers hitch-hike as an ordinary
means of getting from A to B. In Germany, for example, I had
stumbled across Germans and foreigners (including myself)
alike huddled in petrol stations and waving their thumbs in an
attempt to get a lift.
Verdict:
It’s a wonderful way to get around. Your exposure to
new cultures, languages, customs will commence the
moment you hitch your first ride. The unpredictability
of hitchhiking will be your supplier of free thrills, and
the sheer joy in creating friendships out of complete
strangers within fleeting encounters is, in all honesty,
overwhelming.
Here are the downsides: it’s potentially dangerous, it’s
not for the squeamish, and it certainly isn’t for the freak-
ishly pre-prepared.
FREE Accommodation
Many cities have tour companies that
offer free tour, usually in an effort to
entices customers with charismatic
guides, animated presentations and
a more casual atmosphere in order to
sell other priced services it offers.
Verdict:
A free tour is free, but then so is
wandering down the street. A rel-
atively petty gain. At least if you
think the tour guide as the cha-
risma of a rotten carrot you won’t
feel bad (to yourself) for leaving.
If the creditor is mortal manifestation of Death himself, then surely the credit
card is his scythe. For all the living inferno caused by the credit crunch, and the
reckless spending they represent, which we as students strive to avoid like the
plague, little wonder credit cards are generally dismissed solely as a means to
burn money. Not if you look more closely at some of the benefits that come with
a card application, and manage your spending a little more wisely.
Getting Air Miles
Many frequent flyer programmes have affiliated credit cards that allow you
to convert your daily spending into air miles, which can be used to redeem free
flights, hotel rooms, etc. Additionally, some offer benefits to charm customers
into scrambling for an application form. While some cards require an annual
fee, the ones we are concerning ourselves here are completely free-of-charge.
It is, however, important to compare to make sure you’ve got the best deal.
The British Airways Amex Credit Card, for instance, gives away one BA Mile
for every £1 spent, as well as 1000 BA Miles when you spend more than £500
within the first three months of the membership. In contrast, the Lloyds TSB
Airmiles Duo offers a 1500 mile voucher when you spend £10 in the first two
months, along with one mile for every £10 spent. Nevertheless 1500 Lloyds TSB
Airmiles is enough for redeeming two flights to a Zone 1 destination – Paris,
Amsterdam and Dublin for instance – British Airways’ equivalent of which
would demand a whooping 18,000 BA Miles.
Verdict:
Potentially shockingly good deals to be pocketed, though the research
phase of the bargain-hunting isn’t exactly effortless. And let’s not for-
get the money that has to be spent before you start earning air miles.
Oversee with caution or the credit cards may turn out to be a financial
burden.
There are many more ways to travel for
free than begging, stealing, and becom-
ing an MP. Here are felixTravel’s personal
favourites:
Travel Writing
The Dream Job couldn’t be spelt in an-
other way: every avid traveller craves to
write their way around the world.
Truth is, it’s a less profitable profession
than you think.
While professional and freelance travel
writers are assumed to be travelling at the
expense of their newspaper or magazine
editors, publications don’t like subsidised
trips.Notonlybecausetheywouldhateto
part with their cash – should the writers
be claiming expenses – they see a piece
written by someone who has received
freebies as compromised and biased. Not
saying one’s destined to be uncritical, but
that it happens.
With the rise of travel blogging, blog-
gers very often receive offers to review
products free of charge.
Verdict:
A controversial one. The compulsion
is that you write favourably to repay-
ing the generosity of your client. Or
you can grow a conscience and see
where that takes you.
On top of that, one major flaw: your
writing career will not take flight
when you can’t write to save your
own life.
Volunteering
Not the pretentious CV-booster volun-
teering tourism that costs a grand. Thou-
sands of non-profitable organisations
are actively seeking extra hands and will
happily provide food and accommoda-
tion in exchange for a good day’s work.
MatadorNetwork has a list of ten volun-
teer opportunities that come with little
or no cost (matadornetwork.com), which
is a good starting point for searching for a
reputable organisation to work with.
Verdict:
This is what volunteerism is all
about, instead of slum excursions
offered by hotels and unscrupulous,
highly profitable enterprises that
have more interest in beguiling than
helping those in need. Rather than
paying for a tailor-made volunteer-
ing programme that is no different
to a package holiday and offers little
freedom, enjoy the spontaneity and
confrontation with serendipity a
good programme brings. The incon-
venience, of course, is finding one.

