23
felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor
Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs
Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The power of light. Intel’s Light Peak
The World Cup in HD
The World Cup is coming and it’s only
34 days away! That’s 32 of the best
teams from around the world, bat-
tling it out over 30 days, through group
stages and knockout games, all to get
their hands on that elusive golden tro-
phy. That’s a lot of quality football, and
this year we’ll get the chance to see the
whole lot in glorious HD.
Meh, I hear you say. Why would I
want to see football in HD? What pos-
sible benefit is it to football? Well, I
could bang on about how HD has up
to 5 times the level of detail of SD,
and that it’s broadcast with a Dolby
Digital sound track, but I’m not going
to hit you over the head with that old
rhetoric.
HD-ready or Full HD, it doesn’t mean
you’re watching an HD broadcast. But
it’s an easy and relatively painless up-
grade for most, now that Freeview has
gone HD. For those of us in London,
the Freeview service that you know
and love began broadcasting in HD in
December of last year. Unfortunately
to receive the HD channels, BBC HD,
ITV HD and Channel 4 HD, you’ll have
to either buy a new TV with Freeview
HD built-in or buy a new Freeview HD
receiver. Similar to the Freeview boxes
that were bought to receive the digital
free-to-air service in the beginning,
these Freeview HD boxes pick up both
SD and HD channels using only your
TV aerial. If you’re in London you’ll
have to have your TV aerial pointed
at Crystal Palace, which most already
will be, so once you plug the box into
it and your TV, you’re set. A Freeview
HD box will cost somewhere in the
region of £100 to £180, with Freeview
HD PVRs starting at about £250. There
is one caveat however, if you live in a
block of flats, the internal aerial feed
may be filtered causing problems
with the HD broadcasts. If you think
you might have this problem, buy a
Freeview HD box from a retailer that
offers refunds if it won’t work for you.
Of course Freeview HD, although
the most recent service to introduce
HD broadcasting, isn’t the only way to
There are only 34 days left till kick off. Are you and your TV ready?
get the World Cup in HD. The other
free-to-air service FreeSat HD, a part-
nership between the BBC and ITV,
currently offers BBC HD and ITV HD,
with other HD channels promised in
the next couple of years. As the name
implies, FreeSat uses a satellite dish to
pull down its signal, which is great if
you happen to be living in a place with
a Sky dish or other digital satellite dish
on the roof. Whether you’re thinking of
getting rid of your Sky service or want
to put up a new satellite dish, FreeSat
carries loads of free-to-air channels as
well as HD offerings. To take advan-
tage of FreeSat HD, you again need an
HD capable FreeSat box, which starts
at around £100 or an HDTV with Free-
Sat HD built-in. FreeSat HD PVRs are
also available and they start around the
£250 mark.
If you want more channels than the
free-to-air services provide, then you
might want to look at the various sub-
scription services that are available.
If you’re in a cable area then you can
take advantage of Virgin Media’s HD
packages with a V HD box costing you
a one off fee of £49 or free on the TV
XL package. You then pay for one of
the Virgin Media TV packages, which
range from £11.50 to £29 without a
Virgin phone line. Virgin Media also
offer a HD PVR box called the V+ HD,
which also costs £49 but has a £5 per
month extra service fee attached to it.
The venerable Sky also offers HD
packages with the UK’s largest selec-
tion of HD channels. Sky HD is avail-
able in a dizzying plethora of options,
packages and charges starting with
the £28 Sky+HD starter. That includes
2Mb broadband as well, although you’ll
have to have a BT phone line to take
advantage of it. That’ll give you the all
important BBC HD and ITV HD chan-
nels among others.
And finally, if none of that’s possible,
your budget’s a bit tight perhaps, then
your best bet is to find yourself a pub
with the games in HD, or take beers
round to your mates place and camp in
front of his massive HDTV.
Eye-bleeding
detail abound
H
D, it’s the future and it’s
here now! Or is 3D the
future? Why not 3DHD?
3DHD on your 52” OLED
FreeviewHD TV. What a mouthful,
and it looks like it’s only going to get
worse in the near future with all sorts
of new acronym-brandishing technol-
ogies on their way.
It’s not all bad though, because pre-
sumably one day HD won’t be high-
definition any more, once everything is
HD. At that point we’ll get 4KHD; four
times the eye-bleeding detail of regular
HD. We already have cameras record-
ing things in 4K and even 8K, but that’s
a good thing, because once the relent-
less onward march of technology gets
those kinds of displays into our homes,
we’ll already have the content available
to make them shine. The BBC and alike
have been recording things with HD
cameras for years, which is why you can
get the old, yet still digitally recorded
programs in HD now.
Blu-Ray has been making ground in
recent months, having shown a relative-
ly lacklustre adoption after ‘winning’
the format war with HD-DVD. Blu-Ray
might be the last of its kind however,
if Microsoft and others have their way.
Gone will be the physical discs of yes-
terday, and in will be the newfangled
super-highspeed super-mega-turbo-ul-
tra connections and their instant down-
loads. Problem is Britain’s certainly not
going to be ready for it if we go along
with what government calls ‘highspeed
internet’
. That’s 2Mbit ‘broadband’ if
you didn’t know. My cellphone gets
that kind of bandwidth and honestly, I
think it’s practically crawling. What will
2Mbit be like in the future, or even 2012
for that matter? The internet with the
hand brake on I’m guessing.
But what is government expected to
do? Especially in this economic climate?
In all honesty, I don’t know. I hope com-
panies like Virgin Media and BT, pile the
investment in, to get us truly connected
in the Gbps realm, at least in major cit-
ies. You can’t expect a company that has
to make money to fork out a boat load
to make sure Fred living on his country
estate is connected. The digital divide
might end up evolving into the high-
speed divide in the modern intercon-
nected world.
SamuelGibbs
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor
Weekly Wrap-up: A quick guide to the best of the rest you might have missed
Another week in tech has flown by
whilst the majority of you have been
fighting your way through exams. So
let’s have a quick recap to see what you
might have missed in a pretty much
Apple free week.
Intel’s been busy this week with two
separate announcements the first of
which we’ve talked about in felix be-
fore: Light Peak. If you remember,
Light Peak is Intel and Apple’s shot at
USB3 using the power of light. Yes, as
the name suggests, Light Peak pumps
data down optical fibres, as well as the
more traditional copper variety. This
week Intel showed off a laptop kit-
ted out with the optical technology,
retrofitted into a regular USB cable.
The demonstration unit pumped two
simultaneous HD streams down one
cable without even a stutter. According
to Intel, the initial 10Gbps bandwidth
Light Peak will be capable of is only
the beginning, with trillions of bits per
second theoretically possibly over op-
tical fibre. If Intel and Apple get their
way, Light Peak could end up replac-
ing almost every type of connection;
displays, data, networking, everything.
Intel also announced this week that
we could have smartphones with ‘10
days of standby time’, thanks to its
Atom Z-series of processors. Previous-
ly known as Moorestown, Intel hopes
the Atom Z will enable it to get a prop-
er foothold in the smartphone market
currently dominated by ARM based
chips like Qualcomm’s Snapdragon.
Ten days worth of standby time is ap-
parently achievable by only switching
on those parts of the chip that are re-
quired at any one time; a bit like only
switching on the lights in the room
you’re in. Intel also showed a prototype
Atom Z-packing phone running Quake
3 at 100fps, which is way too fast to ac-
tually play, but impressive nonetheless.
Intel’s making some bold claims how-
ever, and faces an uphill battle against
the extremely efficient and moderately
powerful ARM competitors.
SamuelGibbs
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor Dr. Andre Ng became the first cardi-
ologist to use a robot to complete a re-
mote heart operation, at the Glenfield
Hospital in Leicester this week. By us-
ing a robot, cardiac surgeons can avoid
the cumulative effects of exposure to
X-rays, which are used to monitor the
progress of the operation. ‘As long as
the connection’s reliable, the operation
could be performed from anywhere in
the world’, Dr. Ng was quoted as saying.
Is this the future of surgery, since brain
surgery and a kidney transplant have
already been performed using robots?
And finally, those 3D specs you got
with your 3DTV could work fine with
your mates incompatible 3DTV, just
by turning them upside down. Appar-
ent incompatibility solved. Format war
averted. Absurdity inevitable.
SamuelGibbs
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor
Then why not check out the
UK’s weekly tech podcast
brought to you by two
Imperialites and a Bulgarian.
TheWrapSheetPodcast
Available on iTunes or at
www.thewrapsheet.co.uk
Can’t get enough tech news?
“everything that’s
exciting about
football is pin sharp
and in exquisite
detail”
What does HD mean for the World
Cup? Watching the World Cup in HD
is about as close as most of us are go-
ing to get to actually being there. The
colours are vibrant and rich, the crowd
roars as if you were there whilst the
players dance their skilful moves now
shown in incredible clarity allowing
you to see exactly what they’re doing.
And the goals; every curve of the ball;
every swerve in the air; the rebounds,
the deflections, everything that’s excit-
ing about football, is pin sharp and in
exquisite detail.
OK, OK, it sounds awesome. How do
I get it? I have an HDTV, I already have
it right? Contrary to popular belief,
just because you might have an HDTV,
Hold still a minute will you?

