students.
“Being a Rector’s Ambassador is
fun, exciting and full of energy, and
the ambassadors all come from a wide
range of courses and years. Everyone
is outgoing and the atmosphere is
great, plus it’s a flexible programme
that works really well with everyone’s
schedule.”
Solomon Zacharia, studying Civil
Engineering, said “It’s been a fantastic
experience meeting other people and
talking to new students. When I’m
taking tours, students are engaging
and enjoy every bit of the tour. I’ve also
helped out at careers fairs and met lots
of people from other universities. I’ve
made good friends here: we all come
from different backgrounds and it’s
good to talk to other people and see
how they do things.”
You can apply for the
Rector’s Ambassador Scheme at:
www.imperial.ac.uk/international/
students/rectorsambassadors
3
felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
NEWS
C
hemical engineers have
been left fuming this week
after a printing blunder in
their exam papers led to
mass confusion and ur-
gent rescheduling.
On Thursday 29th April, 3rd year
students were due to take the ‘Business
for Engineers’ (BfE) multiple choice
exam from 10am to 12pm. However,
candidates found themselves bewil-
dered when their papers listed a choice
of three exam numbers to note down
on answer sheets. Invigilators were
then almost immediately notified that
the majority of the papers were incom-
plete with alternate pages having been
omitted. Amidst the chaotic scenes,
students were told to leave the room
and were then informed that the exam
had been cancelled, to be taken at a
later date.
Those affected later received an apol-
ogetic email from Dr. Colin Love, Impe-
rial College Business School’s Director
of Undergraduate Studies, who blamed
“a clerical error in the copying process
of examination papers” before stating
that the incident was “entirely the fault
of the Business School”. Alongside this,
students were informed that the exam
Printing error halts business exam
3rd year Chem. Engineers criticise Business School after exam is cancelled after 5 minutes, Matt Colvin reports
“...this event
highlights how
little attention is
paid to BfE by the
Business School.
Oliver Calderbank
3rd yr, Chem Eng
International Office seek new Rector’s Ambassadors for new programme
This week the International Office are
seeking new volunteers to take part
in this year’s Rector’s Ambassadors
scheme. For those unfamiliar with the
concept, the Rector’s Ambassadors
bring the Departmental Ambassadors
together, representing the College as a
whole at Open Days and campus-wide
tours.
Stephanie Mambo, a 4th year Chem
Eng student and Rector’s Ambassador,
said; “Being a Rector’s Ambassador is
an honour. It’s an opportunity to gain
skills such as leadership, interpersonal
communication skills and initiative,
whilst showcasing Imperial positively.”
Stephanie has attended university
fairs in Cyprus and Kenya as an Am-
bassador, and has also participated in
college events such as the Post Gradu-
ate Open Day.
“The fair in Cyprus was a once in
a life time opportunity. I was able to
share my experiences and talk in depth
about my course to highly driven
Emily Govan
Emily Govan
had been rescheduled for the 27th of
May, weeks later than anticipated.
Dr. Love, who described the situation
at the time as a “cock-up on a monu-
mental scale” spoke to felix regarding
the measures taken in the aftermath:
“There was no option other than to
stop the exam. As some had started
with the correct paper, it would be ar-
gued that to recommence, say, an hour
later would have given an unfair advan-
tage. Also, at the time, it was not pos-
sible to confirm a restart time.”
The new date and resulting delay has
not been well received due to its close
proximity with the second set of the de-
partment’s core module examinations,
beginning on the 3rd of June. Many
were also dissatisfied with the original
time of 6pm chosen for the rescheduled
exam, although this was later changed
to 2pm. Some have taken this oppor-
tunity to criticise the Business School
itself for the handling of the BfE course
over this academic year.
Ian Swords, a 3rd year student and
also Departmental Representative for
ChemEng, labels the debacle as, “a sim-
ple error that could have been easily
prevented which has now caused mas-
sive disruption to the year as a whole.”
He also believes that this is, “In many
ways a fitting end to what has been a
poor performance by the Business
School all round. We all know they can
produce world class MBAs (Master of
Business Administration) – why is the
same quality not reflected in their BfE
courses?”
Fellow 3rd year student Oliver Cal-
derbank agrees, stating that, “this event
highlights how little attention is paid to
BfE by the Business School. The course
seriously needs to be re-designed and
more effort put into it.”
Victor Dillard, another 3rd year
Chemical Engineer, outlines the overall
problems that face those affected by the
blunder, arguing that, “A lot of time and
effort was put in by students to prepare
for this exam as there was a substan-
tial amount of material to study. This
exam also marked the send-off of the
3rd year Chemical Engineering exams.
The cancellation forces us to reshuffle
our revision timetables, a big inconven-
ience when we have nine other exams
to prepare for, all much more difficult
than BfE. It seems rather disrespectful
to the students that no care was taken
to check that the examination paper
was faultless before it was handed out -
very disappointing from such a highly-
reputed institution.”
With this event serving as the cul-
mination of a year-long dissatisfac-
tion with the BfE course, it remains
to be seen whether there will be any
changes in the way the module is run
in the future. Until then, a highly “red
faced” and repentant Business School
is unlikely to be of any consolation to
those who now find themselves with
even more unexpected revision on
their plates as the examination period
begins in earnest.
Imperial College Business School has been accused of not paying enough attention to their engineering students

