31
felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
SPORT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
On a cold February morning, the Impe-
rial College Sailing Club ventured into
the depths of Oxford for the southern
qualifiers to the British University Sail-
ing Association (BUSA) team racing
championships. The weather offered a
light fog and little wind- giving a bleak
view of the Oxford countryside and a
bleak view of the weekend ahead. It’s
a shame this rather romantic image of
the countryside was shattered by one
of the Imperial team, who managed to
soak his kit in milk on the train journey
and the stench was beginning to engulf
the whole of Oxford.
Imperial’s first races did not go to
plan, with no wind and poor starts giv-
ing easy victories to Portsmouth 2 and
Southampton 2. The smell, the two
defeats and the lack of wind put the
Imperial team in a foul mood ahead
of their race against previous BUSA
champions University of London 1st
(ULU 1).
During this race the wind picked
up and while Imperial did not win the
race, they put up a good fight and at-
tacked at every opportunity. Fiona
Wall and Claire Trant got in a particu-
larly vicious fight, engaging the ULU
1 team captain in a gripping start line
battle. With a steady breeze now blow-
ing away the fog to reveal the gentle
Oxford countryside, Imperial were
now warmed up and ready for their
race against their regular training part-
ners ULU 3.
Both teams got off to an equal start
and Imperial sailors Chris O’Donnell
and Martin Hauge were first to the
windward mark, followed loosely by
two ULU 3 sailors. Despite having a
boat in first place, Imperial were losing
the race...but only just. Chris and Mar-
tin stopped at the second mark, wait-
ing to pounce on the two ULU 3 sailors
behind them, attacking them and let-
ting Imperial team mates through. De-
spite ULU 3’s best efforts, the trap was
executed smoothly, allowing Imperial
to win the race.
Fiona and Claire started the next
race against Brunel with some unusual
tactics- chatting up the opposition and
serenading ducks.
This insane behaviour must have dis-
tracted Brunel because it gave Imperial
the lead right from the start. Imperial
wanted to keep this lead secure by tak-
ing out the Brunel boats and leaving
them no chance to fight back. Instead,
Chris and Martin (who were again in
first) sailed off, leaving Gavin MacAul-
ay and Henley Leong alone to fight 2
Brunel boats by themselves.
This cowardly streak from Chris
and Martin vanished by the last mark
where they acquired right of way and
tried to T-bone a Brunel boat, forcing
them to get out the way. This gave Im-
perial a solid victory.
Finally Imperial beat Oxford 3s, se-
curing their place for the next day’s
sailing, while 5 teams were knocked
out. This left Imperial with a night full
of pubs, jump starting cars and gener-
ally getting lost (yes, that is possible,
even in Oxford!) before the next day of
sailing.
Fate, however, had other plans for
Imperial. In order to get full rank-
ings, the organisers decided that there
would not be enough wind to complete
enough races, so two teams had to be
eliminated. This meant Imperial, who
only won the races necessary in order
to qualify for the second day, along
with Reading, were eliminated without
the chance to fight for a better place.
Imperial finished the weekend by
coming joint 11th out of 17 teams.
Chris O’Donnell Sailing
Sailing brave the cold February waves to compete at BUSA championship
They don’t look very happy, but neither would you if you were stuck on a freezing cold lake with the stale stench of milk
David Wilson
Other stories from the sporting week
whilst nothing’s happening at Imperial Sports Editor
T
here has been very little
in the way of sporting ac-
tivity at Imperial College
during the first few weeks
of the summer term pre-
sumably due to the exam slog associ-
ated with the summer term. As a result
felixSport have resorted to including
adverts for osteopathy treatment and
trawling for snippets of global sports
news to fill up our pages. So, if there
are any of you taking part in summer
sports activities with the college, send
in your reports so that you can immor-
talized in the pages of felix.
Joe Cole, Frank Lampard and John
Terry were among a host of top names
who turned out at Upton Park for the
academy director, Tony Carr’s, testi-
monial. Although the Chelsea players
were unable to play in the match due
to the Premier League run in, all three
sheepishly donned West Ham United
kits which was a sight in itself. The
West Ham fans managed to refrain
from the ‘Fat’ Frank jibes and were
almost clambering over each other to
get autographs off the Chelsea players.
Fickle game, football.
Meanwhile, over in America, Rory
McIlroy won his first PGA tour title
at the Quail Hollow Open over the
weekend. The Irishman scored a fi-
nal round of 62, that would be an im-
pressive 10-under-par and he finished
four shots ahead of Phil Mickelson
who is soon expected to overtake Ti-
ger Woods in the rankings as World
number one. Even more impressive is
that McIlroy, at twenty years of age,
became the youngest winner of a PGA
tour event since 1996 when a a certain
Tiger Woods burst onto the scene.
Woods, the global sports phenomenon
turned professional at 21. McIlroy? Oh
he’s been around since he was 18.
Mark Cavendish was withdrawn
from the Tour de Romandie by his
team after winning the second stage
for sticking his fingers up at his critics.
Literally. Cavendish apologized for his
actions which he claims were aimed at
his critics, some of whom had claimed
he had gone off the boil. As well as
being withdrawn from the competi-
tion, Cavendish was also fined £3,640.
Hopefully the Manxman will return
to dominate the sprint sections of this
years prestigious Tour de France, sans
two fingered salute.
Reports this week are claiming that
Joe Calzaghe could be tempted out of
retirement for a ‘superfight’ rematch
with Bernard Hopkins. No, Floyd
Mayweather against Manny Pacquiao
would be true superfight, any matchup
between Calzaghe and Hopkins would
surely be an exhibition fight from a
previous era. Anyone who witnessed
the first fight between these two surely
would not want to endure another.
There is no doubting that they were
both great fighters; Hopkins dominat-
ed the middleweight division for years
but now aged 45 he’s far and away over
the hill. Calzaghe became joined an
elite club bowing out with world ti-
tles and an unblemished record intact.
Calzaghe seems to have succumbed to
the greatest vice of all retired boxers;
boredom. Many of the greats couldn’t
resist one final crack all glory, Mar-
ciano, Foreman, Balboa and Holyfield
at present. But as Calzaghe’s father and
trainer Enzo nicely put it “If Joe comes
back now, he’s playing with danger be-
cause he has nothing to gain and every-
thing to lose”.
England cricket coach Andy Flower
labeled his team as ‘dangerous’ before
their Twenty20 super eights show-
down with Pakistan yesterday. It has
been recently shown that the greatest
danger associated with English cricket
is the expecations and hope which the
fans place upon the team.
Manchester United’s striker Michael
Owen has not had a season to remem-
ber; his appearances on the pitch were
limited and he then suffered a ham-
string injury in the Carling Cup final
which demolished any small change
of him going to South Africa. Owen’s
poor luck continued as Nemo Spirit,
the horse he part owns disappointed
at the Chester Cup . Teammates Nani
and John O’Shea fared better as both
racked up betting wins.
The most pleasing news for Global
male population is that Anna Kournik-
ova is returning to Wimbledon to play
in a veterans tournament this summer,
at the grand old age of 28. Veteran
indeed.

