4 felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FEATURE
Y
ou can see why people have
voted Alex in as next year’s
Imperial College Union
President. Although it’s
hard for me to put forward
first impressions of him as I’ve known
him for about six months now (as part
of the felix team), it’s the exact reason
why he’s President next year. A com-
bination of mild manners, good looks
and an active involvement with most
things at Imperial means he’s a familiar
face; a face that other students obvi-
ously couldn’t resist voting for.
He’s on the other side of the bank
holiday weekend that has seen him
finish his finals in Biology. He has one
last stretch of work in the form of a
six-week project before he completes
his degree and becomes the Union
President.
Though by no means has he had as-
pirations of authority since he arrived
at Imperial four years ago.
“In your first two years you’re vague-
ly aware that there’s this thing called
the Union and they put on bar nights,”
he says. After he returned from a year
in industry working with the Liberal
Democrats, he became Fellwanderers
society Chair and subsequently more
aware of what a student union does.
“Coming to the end of my final year,
I discovered a lot I wasn’t aware of
before and from that I got an idea of
the potential of things that could hap-
pen, and also about the rather strange
structure of the Union which can be
made clearer, not redone. I didn’t even
know what the RWB board was until
this year,” he says.
Though some might worryingly flag
up a lack of experience in the higher
structures of the Union considering
his time at Imperial, it may come as
a blessing in disguise. Alex Kendall is
the average Joe of Imperial College; the
average Joe you’d probably want rep-
resenting you, as Imperial students, to
other institutions across the country.
He’s not the type of student that has,
as he puts it, “lived in the Union and
knows everything about the Union”.
Choosing to work with such a large
political body like the Liberal Demo-
crats as part of his degree may lead
people to view his time as Union Presi-
dent as another stepping stone in his
political ladder. He’s keen to dispel this
however.
“I’m genuinely not a career politican
and I’m not doing this for my CV. I
don’t agree. No sabbatical I’ve met has
done it purely for their CV,” he pro-
tests. When I point out the recent res-
ignation of what would have been next
year’s Deputy President of Education,
Meera Ganeshadevan (who instead
took up a three month internship at
Credit Suisse), Alex is quick to see both
sides of the situation.
“In Meera’s case, I think she wasn’t
wholly committed to being Deputy
President of Education, but I don’t
think you could say she doesn’t care
about students. After all, she decided
to run in the first place and there are
easier things than putting your face in
front of 14,000 students. I appreciate
people who are true to their promises,
and standing for election is a promise,
but I also don’t judge people too harsh-
ly.” he says.
For himself however, he hints there
may have been political aspirations
once, but says that his time in politics
tuned them flat.
“Strangely enough, the experience
[with the Lib Dems] also put me off
politics, I am now less interested in go-
ing into politics than I was.” Beyond his
interest in student politics then, what
does he actually want to do? After de-
ferring a Masters programme at Impe-
rial to take up his Presidency, he’s still
leaving his future unroofed. His un-
certainty is probably oddly familiar to
many students at Imperial as he gives
his response to my question about his
future career.
“I’m not sure what I want to do with
my life. It’s either science or business,
He’s not the type of student
that has, as he puts it, “lived
in the Union and knows
everything about the Union”.
A NEW FACE
FOR IMPERIAL
COLLEGE
UNION
NEXT YEAR’S UNION PRESIDENT, ALEX KENDALL TALKS
TO FELIX ABOUT HIS PLANS FOR THE NEW NIGHTCLUB,
FOLLOWING THE MEDICS’ LEAD WHEN IT COMES TO
HAVING FUN AND WHY IMPERIAL STUDENTS SHOULD
BE WHINING... AT HIM.
Alex Kendall in the Fellwanderers equipment store room in the West Basement of Beit
WORDS BY DAN WAN

