5
felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“When Metric is finished and does what we hope,
it’s certainly going to be competitive as a venue
to [LSE and King’s Union]. I have no problem with
advertising it to other universities”
but that’s pretty much the vaguest an-
swer you can give.” He’s right. It’s the
vagueness that most final year Impe-
rial students will exude when asked.
Both his background in Biology and
his environmental policy work with
the Liberal Democrats means there
may be a green agenda coming for the
Union.
“The Union’s environmental policy
runs out at the end of the year. I’ll be
working over the summer to renew
that, with hopefully some additions.
Some presidents have concentrated on
the environmental agenda, but not all
of them,” he states before explaining
how he intends to change the system
by which clubs and societies travel
across the globe on tours to be more
environmentally-friendly.
The system is way over my head, but
it’s evident it’s a personal concern, es-
pecially since he’s Chair of Fellwander-
ers society this year. It is not uncom-
mon to see Alex throwing hiking gear
into the back of a minibus on Prince
Consort Road come Friday afternoon,
as he prepares for a weekend trip to the
wild stretches of the county. If work-
ing in politics for a year wasn’t the
pre-cursor to becoming Union Presi-
dent, it’s his active involvement with a
society that has produced two Sabbati-
cal officers for next year: himself and
Deputy President of Clubs & Societies
Heather Jones.
“The Fellwanderers showed me that
the Union is about developing stu-
dents’ lives in all the areas that College
cannot, be that through Sport, learn-
ing a new skill, or learning more about
yourself. I think that we lose that per-
spective sometimes, that it is here and
now that matters more than the future.
I love that about the Union, which is
why I wanted to be a part of it.”
As great as it to see someone who
has picked up an interest such as
Fellwandering at university and run
with it, there are many more who just
haven’t. The lack of involvement many
students have shown has been down to
the ‘general apathy’ that exists at Im-
perial, and Alex is looking to at least
make a start on removing it by avoid-
ing being what he calls “that faceless
Union”.
“Emails from the Union need to be
more personal, you are more likely to
come to an event organised by people
you know or have bothered to come
talk to you, or at very least people
you’re familiar with.”
Alex is also looking to take a differ-
ent angle on his approach with Fresh-
ers than with previous years. He wants
them to see the Union not so much as
the sugar-daddy of entertainment and
booze, but as lots of older and wiser
siblings to join in the fun with.
“It’s important that they know all
the things they’re enjoying are run
by students. It’s so easy to come from
school to this huge university and to
think club or bar nights are being run
by ‘adults’ or professionals. But, if we
get them to realise everything around
them is organised by people that have
only been here a year sometimes, it’ll
encourage them to get involved. If they
really want to be involved, it’s not that
hard and there is a way into it.”
The analogies of families within the
Union may sound absurd, but the con-
cept is something that the Medics and
their Freshers at Imperial thrive on.
This hasn’t gone unnoticed by Alex ei-
ther. He’s keen to take elements of the
Medics’ Union and implement them
into the central Union in Beit Quad.
Using the Medics’ way of commu-
nication of representation throughout
their students is the first way he will
bring faces to the ‘faceless Union’.
“I want to know who my year rep is,
I want to know what their names are,
what they look like and their email ad-
dress. At the moment you have to navi-
gate your way through the RCSU web-
site to try and find out who they are in
Biology. You need to put this some-
where obvious, like up on a board. It’s
unashamedly copying from the med-
ics, but it works.”
On the flip-side and away from aca-
demic representation, he wants to
bring the fun-loving reputation Medics
have to the South Kensington campus.
“When the Medic’s do their themed
bops on Friday nights, they’re unique
and they’re absolutely packed [at Rey-
nold’s Bar]. We need clubs and socie-
ties to put in applications to take over
the new venue [Metric] and put on
themed nights. That’s good at attract-
ing people, and it’s not run by faceless
Union people again,” he says. “I think
the Union is lagging behind, when
compared to the Reynold’s, because
the events it puts on are organised for
students rather than by students.”
As the conversation approaches the
subject that is hot on the lips of the
casual punter at the Union’s bars, Alex
gives a wry smile. He knows what’s
coming with the mention of the new
nightclub and bars, and he’s obviously
keen to talk about it. After all, the Un-
ion’s bars are what he freely admits is
all that most students see as the Union.
“Most students by the end of their
first year will either see it as that or
get involved with the Union’s other as-
pects. It’s a problem.” How is he going
to solve it, then? “It’s letting students
get involved with the new club and
copying the medic ‘bop’ system they
have at Reynolds.”
The renovation of dB’s nightclub
which will see it renamed Metric will
also allow an avenue of entertainment
which hasn’t been seen at the Union
before: good live music.
“It’s one of the factors of the design
and we’re hoping to have a really good
touring venue for bands.” It’s the use
of students that Metric will make a
success of the space that dB’s couldn’t.
“We need more bands from outside
as well as more bands from Imperial
playing there.”
The new nightclub, which sees
a substantial part of £2.4 million
pumped into it, also opens up the pos-
sibility for the Union to benefit from
external visitors.
“We are rebuilding it for us and it
needs to be primarily for Imperial stu-
dents. If it isn’t, then it’s failing.”
When I bandy the idea around of
Metric being seen alongside King’s
College or LSE’s open student club
nights with a slight sense of ridicule,
Alex is keen to shoot the ridicule
down.
“When Metric is finished and it looks
and does what we hope, it’s certainly
going to be competitive as a venue to
those places. I have no problem with
advertising it to other universities in
London and having multi-university
events at Metric.”
The nightlife at Imperial isn’t the
only thing students have been com-
plaining about in recent times. A
quick look at Facebook shows nearly
1000 students have joined the “Fuck
Our Imperial Lives (FOIL)” group. It
is a group where people collectively
despair at their perceived hardships at
Imperial. Wisely or not, Alex doesn’t
read too much into it.
“It’s tongue in cheek. In a way, it’s all
self-induced pain because everyone
secretely enjoys the fact they’re at such
a good university and it’s nice to com-
plain ‘Oh, haven’t I got so much work?’
and to tell your friends about it. It’s not
as funny as ‘Overheard at Imperial.”
So do Imperial students whine too
much?
“No, I don’t think so. There are plen-
ty of good reasons to whine, because
things do go properly wrong. There is
poorly marked coursework and feed-
back; there are badly taught lectures;
lecturers that don’t turn up. Those
kinds of issues aren’t given as much at-
tention as those problems on the FOIL
group.”
Despite barely containing his ex-
citement about the new venues, they
are not Alex’s priority. His priority
is something which many see as the
more mundane side of the Union: the
representation network.
“We want to increase the represen-
tation network to help them whine!
We want whining aimed at the Union
rather than at Facebook.” It’s almost
like he’s putting himself up for sacri-
fice. “The representation network de-
pends on people knowing about it and
I don’t think people feel confident or
able to go up the chain of representa-
tion when there is a problem. Enabling
that to happen doesn’t sound like a
grand vision but it was something that
got me thinking about running for the
position in the first place.”
So is Alex a commanding officer or
a front-line soldier? Surprisingly, for
someone so perfectly legible to be the
new face of Imperial College Union, it
looks like he’s happy to drive the Un-
ion tank from the back seats, albeit
with his head poking out the top.
Alex on a trip with the Fellwanderers society; with the Sabbatical team he will be in charge of, excluding Meera Ganeshadevan who has already resigned; and finding Muesli in Beit’s club store rooms.
FEATURE

