6
COMMENT
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
T
his morning as I was writ-
ing a wry-thing, I glimpsed,
nay gaped while glimpsing,
and furthermore glanced
and goggled and gawped at
a glimption, aghast I gasped with gump-
tion, and so forth, a very rare sight.
The sight which so shocked me was
none other than an orange, sitting soft-
ly, sumptuously and succulently (but if
this description is anything to go by, not
succinctly) on the side of my desk. Per-
haps this may seem an everyday occur-
rence. (Certainly, to a grocer, the citric
orb perched nearby must be a veritable
leitmotif (or rather life motif)). But I
sensed a certain kinship, the orange and
I, regarding each other silently over the
half written page.
For Oranges may not be the only
fruit, but proud, as I am, to be amongst
the ranks of those not providing evi-
dence of that particular aphorism, I can
stand up for the oranges. Conventional
he may be in these days of jet-setting
ex-patting exoticism, and I must admit,
the orange is no pineapple. It’s a fruit
which says, have fun kids, but keep safe.
The frivolity of the moderate bourgeois
if you will. I aim to live up to the or-
ange, spitting forth a similar sweet and
zesty piquancy and leaving pithy lines
between your teeth.
But as I watched the orange, we
seemed no longer so close, what I
had perceived as our shared function,
turned out to be no more than a tan-
gent, and while I could aspire to be-
come a tan gent, the orange would be
tango before my tan went. This bright
sphere, cousin of the fabled fruit in the
trees below the Beatles’ marmalade
skies, would dream instead of marma-
lade ‘pi’s, just half of which will send
even the merest tan of tangerine to in-
finity and back.
The orange does, however, have
something in common with the three
candidates for prime minister, who
by now have reached the end of their
electoral race. I allude not to their waxy
skin, their shiny image or their poten-
tial for acidic disappointment, but in-
stead to their excellently smooth chins.
For not one of the leaders of Britain’s
three main political parties sports a
beard.
The beard, considered a masculine
essential in a great many societies, but
reviled in others, has been entirely out
of fashion, and certainly out of political
fashion for many years now.
This election begs to differ though,
politicians more divided over missiles
than bristles on which they stand cheek
to closely shorn cheek (or maybe chic).
All this is the explanation for my advice
not to abandon your shaving-ism as
you might your chauvinism.
Yet I must admit a certain sadness
as the election campaign stops like a
speeding ballot, leaving maybe only a
week of political speculation. I will miss
the intense commentary, for election
time is when everyone has their say,
especially in these days of Twitter and
reinstated status of status (forget cars
and clothes, smileys are the new status
symbols). I think it’s glorious to know
that the comments are being written,
tirelessly, again and again, this is what
real social commentary is made of! Giv-
en my penchant for roomy ruminations
and attractive tracts, it’s been a nice va-
riety. By next week we will be back to
the usual few common-tators, but for
now, my heart pounds to the pitter-
patter of a tinny beat, the key strokes of
stroke keys and the fingers tapping on
the thinking man’s drumkit.
JoyBalmercompares the PM with oranges
“I allude not
to their waxy
skin, their shiny
image or their
potential for acidic
disappointment...”
A
fter years of labour, the
agonising gestation period
is finally over. We have had
risks of abnormalities and
complications, moments
of crisis and panic, but at last the great
Mother Democracy has brought forth
a leader, still covered in amniotic fluid
and wailing in shock, into the arms of a
proud and expectant public.
As of last night you are the lucky own-
ers of a bouncing baby Prime Minister.
And yes, it’s a boy. Let the bells ring out,
the trumpets blare, and the wine pour
forth like ash from a dyspeptic volcano.
Deck Ed Balls with boughs of holly and
have George Osborne dipped in gold
and sold as a commemorative figurine.
How relieved you must be that the
election worked out as it did. I know I
am very happy for you. And I am also
incredibly glad that the whole sensa-
tional and sensationalist mess is behind
us. I think it only fair of me to point out
that I don’t have an English passport – I
gave it up for Lent. But seeing as I live in
your country and nap in the dark cor-
ners of your universities, I feel it would
be rude of me not to take an interest in
the internal rumblings of the British po-
litical stomach. It would be like a lodger
in a provincial bed and breakfast tak-
ing no notice of a fire in the bathroom
unless it singed his bowels. Sorry, that
should be towels.
But, as I believe you say in this coun-
try, my tongue is not yet suited to your
mother. My ears flap helplessly in the
wind broken by your rapid speech, and
I often find myself incapable of under-
standing your iron railings against au-
thority. Or should that be ironic?
Small wonder, then, that I should
have such trouble understanding a
word familiar to the meanest intellects
the length and breadth and width and
height and depth of your remarkably
pointy country. If you will pardon me to
ask, what is meant (a thousand apolo-
gies for disturbing your peace) by this
word ‘Change’?
Your well-known Face Book (written,
I believe, by William the Conqueror in
an attempt to catalogue the facial fea-
tures of the Anglo-Saxon race), is not
particularly helpful. “If David Cameron
wants Change so badly,” it suggests,
“give him 30p and tell him to fuck off.”
Not only does this seem a disrespectful
way to address a man who is/was/will
be leader of the country/a politician
with a face best remembered as hav-
ing launched a thousand memes, but it
doesn’t make a great deal of sense.
Is this the sort of Change that Cam-
eron wanted? The Change that Nick
Clegg so passionately campaigned for?
The Change that Gordon Brown des-
perately claimed he could bring? Who
knows. All I can say for certain is that
I was as fed up with having ‘Change’
flung in my direction from posters,
broadcasts, leaflets and newspapers as
I am with having change flung at me
by shopkeepers, vending machines, bus
drivers and rich passers-by who tell
me not to spend it on drink.
General elections are a fun and ex-
citing break from the monotony of
daily politics. They provide clean
wholesome fun for all the family, and
usually come with a five year money-
back guarantee. They are also, para-
doxically enough, among the most de-
pressing times to be a member of the
general public.
I dislike being taken for an idiot.
As discussed at some length above I
am not English, so I am averse to pre-
suming as to your own feelings on the
subject. But few things have annoyed
me more about this national campaign
than the blanket assumption rolled
across the country and tucked in at
Dover that the public can’t think for
itself.
By the time you read this one of the
guys who will cut taxes and imple-
ment change in ways eerily similar to
and yet utterly different from the other
two guys will have won. Coalitions will
be discussed, political careers will end,
and the embarrassing business of cam-
paigning will be forgotten.
And now that _____ ______ is con-
tentedly playing with a slinky down the
staircase of Number 10 (it is left as an
exercise to the reader to fill in the gaps
in the preceding clause), it does seem a
little churlish to dwell on the past few
frenetic weeks. The birth of a baby
is, after all, the sign that friends and
well-wishers can finally release months
of pent-up emotion and go to buy it
clothes.
And so I should, by rights, be picking
out the tiny onesies of expectation and
the matching bonnets of hope for our
beloved newborn. At the same time,
my arms should overflow with the nap-
pies of cynicism, ready to mop up the
copious doo-doo that your national
baby will doubtless be emitting.
Next time, have a look at birth
control.
GileadAmit isn’t convinced by UK politics
“Few things have
annoyed me more
than the blanket
assumption that
the public can’t
think for itself.”

