7
felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
S
ticks and stones can break my
bones but words can never
hurt me.
Ah, a popular children’s id-
iom, especially for those who
had more words than stones hurled at
them in their formative years, but I’m
not keen on it. For one, it’s completely
wrong, and two, far more importantly,
it sells words short by a wide margin.
Words have power, far more power than
we give them credit for.
It all started, as most things did, in the
dimly lit caves of prehistory. All men
were equal (Women weren’t, sadly).
As utopic as this sounds, they didn’t
get very far. Since they had no way of
communicating, aside from charades
and shadow puppet theatre, complex
tasks like organising mammoth-hunts
or guard-duty from hungry leopards
didn’t really get off the ground. Our an-
cestors didn’t know who to turn to, who
the brains of their operations were. Re-
member, this was before the invention of
glasses. Then an outsider of the group,
chastised for his mutation of a slimmer
tongue, finer vocal cords, or maybe a
novel approach to temporal lobe archi-
tecture, stood up, cleared his throat and
said, “Excuse me, chaps. I don’t mean to
be a bother but I think you would have
rather more luck with those dastardly
Mammuthus primigenius if you gave
them a good going over with sticks a
mite sharper than your current arsenal.
Can you see my, ahem, point?”
And thus, Language was born! With
the pun following close behind.
Once his comrades realised these
new-fangled words could help procure
their basic living needs, they began to
ponder what else they could be used
for. Could they, for example, woo and
charm their ladyfolk to relations of a
more intimate nature? The answer was
yes, and so Poetry was discovered. After
this, they found more and more uses for
words and society really kicked off. All
thanks to some rather odd-sounding
grunts.
And as with anything, with all their
uses, words have their misuse. They can
be used to insult and demean, to hold
people back. From the playground to
the workspace, psychological bullying,
of which words are the tools, cuts far
deeper than a mere pummelling. A com-
ment, thrown away in spite, can worm
its way into a person’s head and heart.
There, it can grow and fester like a can-
cer, with all the same poisonous poten-
tial. You only have to pick up the Metro
to read of someone who took their own
life over a tirade of taunting. That’s not
right. Words aren’t meant for that.
With arguably less maleficence, words
can also be used to exclude. From the
impenetrable wall of jargon that renders
the scientist dumb and the public deaf to
the difficulties of asking for directions in
French, instead of going between peo-
ple, words get in between people. This
can promote social inclusion to those
fortunate enough to speak the spiel but
at the expense who left their phrase-
books at home.
But words can be used to bring peo-
ple together as well. Countless people
through the ages have drawn spiritual
comfort from the religions and oral his-
tories of their ancestors and, in more
recent times, football anthems. In the
political sphere, the best orators and
demagogues throughout history have
known how to mould and manipulate
the populace with a cleverly crafted
turn of phrase. And the greatest way of
reaching someone is, of course, comedy.
This can range from the humeral mala-
propism (Or rather, humorous) to the
Freudian cock-up (I mean slip-up!) to
the ubiquitous pun (They’re infamous
– every time I tell one, people have it in
for me).
If you’re still in doubt of the power
words can hold, simply look to the field
of medicine. Oh, go on – it won’t bite. It
is thought that Shakespeare coined eight
thousand new words – that’s hardly one
chapter of even the briefest of medical
dictionaries. Doctors boldly operate
with the ethos that brevity is for sis-
sies. And yet most of their vocabulary
is within one syllable of each other! But
it’s the pharmaceutical companies who
have taken this to a whole other level.
Every new drug they release has a name
that is half a dictionary long, utterly un-
pronounceable and reads like an incan-
tation from the Necronomicon. Ph’nglui
mglw’nafh Cthulhu R’lyeh wgah’nagl
fhtagn...Abciximab.
But this barely scratches the surface.
You could fill a dictionary with mor-
phemes, portmanteaus, syntaxes, hom-
onyms, jokes, rhetoric, one-liners and
War and Peace. Except that’s not what a
dictionary is for. So I’ll simply say this:
Ciao!
RhysDaviesknows the power of words
“And as with
anything, with all
their uses, words
have their misuse. ”
W
ell, now. Aren’t I in
a bit of a position
this week. I’m writ-
ing this pre-election,
you’re reading this
post-election; what to do, what to do.
Do I rail at you for bringing in Cam-
eron and dooming us to a future of
death and dirty looks from China? Do
I chuckle at the idealistic thought that
a hung parliament might “make them
work together”? I’m in a bind here.
Oh but you’d planned ahead for this,
hadn’t you. You planned ahead by all
acting like a riotous band of tossers
from start to finish in this election
campaign, thus giving me this point to
reflect on - no matter who you elect in
this week, you’ve only gone and proved
that democracy in this country is one
epic game of the blind leading the Arse-
Elbow Differentiation Society.
From the very first television debate,
where you watched one man shout
slightly louder than two other, uglier
men and decided that he was charis-
matic on that basis, every single one
of you has done nothing but drive me
round the fucking bend. I’ve heard so
much contradictory bullshit in the last
month that by Friday I’m expecting us
to have seventeen different Prime Min-
isters, with the economy simultane-
ously recovering and dipping back into
recession. That’s going to be a tough
weekend, eh?
Bad news guys! Whoever you just
elected, it turns out, has exactly the
same debt to clear, has told almost the
same number of lies, and cares as much
about your personal situation as the
two guys you thought were total shit.
The minor points - the tax break here,
the immigrant-burning power stations
there - they’re just fluff to distract you.
The government is going to do what
the government likes, and just like
the other three and a half years prior
to January when you couldn’t give a
tinker’s cuss, you will probably live life
oblivious to it.
And I don’t mind, I don’t. But I have
to sit through hours of your pseud
bullshit, listening about how “the coun-
try” either used to be a certain way,
is a certain way, or will be a certain
way. About how you’re emigrating, or
staying here all your life, or wah, wah,
wah. Just because you’ve finally got to
grips with the big nine-letter words
the Economist uses doesn’t mean that
I want to inhale the second-hand opin-
ion you’ve been getting off your local
dealer in Tescos.
I sat revising with Lord Factshitter
II the other day, having every attempt
at learning a formula punctuated
with some comment about margin-
als. Nothing gets that man hot like the
fiery taste of single-figure percentage
swings. Phwoar. Three-way marginal,
you say? You dirty, dirty electorate,
you.
I’m sat there wondering what this
man does when Dimbleby isn’t on the
news at least twice a day, and all he is
doing is tripping facts off about the
Labour party. You remember that time
last month when that girl turned down
an offer of naked hijinx because she
found out you think Lost’s a bit over-
rated? That was Labour’s fault, it turns
out. That time in primary school where
you shat yourself instead of answering
a question in front of the class? Even
then was the hand of the Left wing at
work.
Of course, every election should
make people feel slightly desperate and
hopeless about their future. If an elec-
tion is particularly good, it’ll also make
you despise the media and all those
associated with it. But I didn’t think
that it could make you hate the voters
themselves. If ever there was an argu-
ment for despotism, then there are sev-
eral hundred of them milling around
Queen’s Tower on weekdays right now.
So I’m left feeling that whoever you
elect on Thursday, no amount of politi-
cal activism will allow me to vote in a
new generation of students. Sod emi-
grating to the States, I’m off to North
Korea. It might be a bit drab, but the
newspapers probably read better.
AngryGeekcontemplatestheelections
“The government
is going to do what
the government
likes...and you will
probably live life
oblivious to it.”

