9
felix FRIDAY 07 MAY 2010
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The eruptions of Eyjafjallajökull have taught us to not underestimate nature, and to realise where we stand
Lead author Dr
Rob Sansom,
who caught the
wild fish and
watched them
decay, much to
the dismay of
visitors to the
department
James Goldsack
James Goldsack
Rotting fish give insights into fossil interpretation
It was all a bit sudden when, on April
15th 2010, the world suddenly became
interested in a plume of ash that had
come from a volcano in southern Ice-
land. Why was this? Well it was be-
cause from that day onwards a large
proportion of European airspace was
closed off, resulting in the cancellation
of flights. Of course, you know all this
already. After all, it happened in the
middle of the Easter break when you
were deep in revision (may still be) and
occasionally heard the odd snippet of
news about Gordon Brown slagging
off a pensioner for not liking how the
demographic of her town was deterio-
rating. OK, so the volcano itself is old
news, but what was the timescale and
what actually happened? Is it even still
going off?
Eyjafjallajökull has erupted frequent-
ly since the last Ice Age. The Icelan-
dic Meteorological Office published
data in December which indicated
an increase in residual seismic activ-
ity around the area during the years
2006–2009, culminating in December
2009 with thousands of small earth-
quakes detected (of magnitude 1–2
Mw) This most recent major eruption
(April 14th) has not come out of the
blue, as many people have suggested.
It still rages, too. Whilst the situation
with the airspace - as far as most peo-
ple care - became much more relaxed
in Britain on April 20th, the ash still
remains ( it has been suggested that we
even saved 200,000 tonnes per a day of
CO2 emissions as a result of cancelled
flights). As recently as the 4th May, a
fresh plume was pushed 5.5km into
the air. As a result of this massively dy-
namic situation, local airspace restric-
tions are being applied and removed
constantly.
A Volcano erupted a wee while back...
Nathan Ley
Nathan Ley Science Editor Now this all sounds reasonable, and
should offer a nice amount of context
to put the headlines in to.
However, there are problems with
modern media and the associated hys-
teria. As far as I’m concerned, very lit-
tle fundamental information has been
conveyed to the people. Sure, we heard
from a lot of people who’s flight from
Barcelona back to Manchester was
cancelled, and they were “ABSOLUTE-
LY OUTRAGED!!!” We even heard
from a sober Scotsman who screamed
“I HATE ICELAAAAAND” down the
camera. Well that’s nice for you mate
but seriously? Volcanoes are as much
a part of life as me or you. They are a
product of having a planet based on a
molten core.
The eruptions were not, as some
people have suggested, ‘an act of god’.
An act of God means nothing. It was
bad enough that the media threw this
phrase around, but worse is that this
is the same wafer thin defence behind
which faceless insurance companies
have sat, in an attempt to avoid major
payouts to customers.
Professor Brian Cox recently gave
his opinion on that matter, in a more
rational manner. He said “Next time
you get upset because you can’t get
strawberries or asparagus, remember
that without volcanoes there would be
no atmosphere on this planet,” And he
Spectacular scenes at Eyjafjallajökull light up the night sky
“Eyjafjallajökull has
erupted frequently
since the last Ice
Age”
Rotting fish could give scientists an
insight into how to interpret some of
the oldest and most important fossils.
By finding patterns in rotting fish, a
greater understanding of fossilised sea
creatures can be gained. The study re-
vealed how primitive marine creatures
may have changed as they decayed.
The researchers have identified cer-
tain particular patterns of deteriora-
tion that should help scientists identify
very early marine fossils more accu-
rately. Dr Rob Sansom from the Uni-
versity of Leicester, who led the study,
said that fossil examination is similar
to forensic analysis. “Unlike forensics,
however, we are dealing with life from
millions of years ago,” he said.
"What we want to get at is what an
animal was like before it died and, as
with forensic analysis, knowing how
the decomposition that took place af-
ter death altered the body provides im-
portant clues to its original anatomy."
This is most important for animals
preserved as soft tissue remains, the
case for some of the earliest creatures
in the fossil record. These are marine
creatures that lived up to 500 million
years ago. The earliest known chor-
dates had no skeleton but luckily in
rare conditions their soft bodies were
fossilised and preserved partially in-
tact. The researchers were hoping to
110
The number of millions of cubic
metres of tephra ejected during the
eruption of the 14th April
500
The age (in millions of years) of
the earliest marine creatures that
maintained their skeletons
1
The number of times the study has
been cited in new research, since it’s
publication in January 2010
find out how the forms of the animals
have changed during decay, between
death and fossilisation.
Dr Mark Purnell, a member of the
study, explained that this involved
"some very unpleasant experiments".
He and his colleagues studied some
primitive marine vertebrates, includ-
ing lampreys.
They also examined some close rela-
tives of vertebrates. The dead creatures
were placed in clear containers and they
watched how each specimen changed
as it rotted. The team discovered that
some of the defining characteristics
used by biologists to identify fossils
were fundamentally altered by decay.
Features including the muscular pat-
terns and shapes changed dramatically
during decomposition. Now traced,
these changes and patterns can be used
by scientists to better interpret some of
the most ancient marine fossils.
"We need to understand how they
decayed if we're going to put them in
the right place in the tree of life," said
Dr Purnell. "The work doesn't appeal
to everyone, but it's worth the effort."
at work that are, quite simply, greater
than any possible man-made con-
struction. As Professor Cox said, if it
weren’t for volcanoes, we would have
no atmosphere, no gravity, and hence
no existence. Maybe we should put
things into context and bear these ide-
as in mind next time we’re devastated
and realise that our week in Benidorm
has been cancelled.
has a point.
The flight restrictions placed upon
airspace by the authorities may have
been a little draconian, but that’s not
the key point, and neither is the point
that the media has been blinkered
(which is to be expected). The point,
is that as humans we don’t own the
world. We may be the most dominant
species, but there are forces and laws
“We’re dealing with
life from millions of
years ago”

