4
COMMENT
It i s three years since I came to
Imperial College. In those three years
my opinions of the aims of university
education, especially as applied here,
have changed fundamentally. In those
early days the magic letters B.Sc. rep-
-resented the ideal of my efforts, tney
influenced me wherever I went-, what-
-ever I did.
Now I am the "proud" possessor of
the degree of B.3c. (Special) and nave
oome to realise the f u l l meaning of the
qualification "special". It means end-
-les3 toil, worry, and above a l l , long
hours. It means the accumulation of
reams upon reams of fact3, many of whioh
are useless, many more of whioh are for-
-gotten onoe the relative examinations
are taken. In short i t means nothing less
than oraramlng. It should not be neces-
-sary that students should have to work
regularly until 9pm. to finish a day3
set work.
Over the last two years the Science
and Education Committee of the Science
Masters Association and the Association
of W
o
m
e
n Science Teachers has been oon-
-sidering the syllabuses of sixth form
courses. In the case of physios i t has
been shown that, by the use of imag-
inative presentation, the time spent on
the oourse by the pupil could be reduced
by 2X&v Here then i s a case Cor radical
changes at Imperial College.
Since the end of the last war we
have seen great advances in teaching
methods at primary sohools. Now secon-
-dary education i s changing. We can
see a minor revolution taking place but
at present we.are prepared to stand back
and watch. Is this good enough? The
answer i s definitely NO. In a world
where the status of the soientist i s
rapidly rising i t becomes more and more
Important for the science graduate to be
equipped with a good education as well
as a good degree. At present many peo-
-ple leave I.C, with one or the other;
but rarely both.' Do you think that
this should be so ? If not then where
does the fault lay ? What can be done?
Tou should a l l have some views on this,
after a l l your future depends on i t . If
your feeling are strong then take up
your pen and write, i f you oouldn't oare
less then I oan only condemn you for
your apathy.
' Robert P. Chetney.
Dear Reader,
By now most of pou will know that
I am an avowed Conservative. However
I am forced to disaggree with a feiipw
Conservative, namely Finlay D.
Mcpherson. Prom his,latter in the last
edition of FELIX I get the impression
that he i s being haunted by nightmares
of the Union being taken over by soc-
-ialists on a popular vote. If what he
says i 3 true he may well be justified- in
having such nightmares.
It appears that I.C. contains a
large majority of idealistio socialists
(we poor Conservatives are the oppressed
minority ??). These fanatios will, un-
-less put down by those in authority,
destroy the whole organisation of the
Union, They lust after that terrible
seditious thing, democracy. They now
actually want to be able to vote for
their President. However Finlay thinka
this reeks of that "one man one vote"
dogma. Obviously i t must be stamped .
out at once.
How the truly nightmarish beings
appear. It seems that I.C. is pop-
-ulated by people who are completely
incapable of choosing their own President
Given a free choice they would, appar-
ently, always choose the candidate with
the pretty face, the one that can down
the most beer or the "popular hero".
They would avoid a l l the "profiles"
appearing round the College (poss-
i b l y even in FELIX). They would not
consider what administrative and amb-
-assadorial qualities the candidates had
and they would certainly ignore whether
he was suitable or not. Steadfastly,
to a man, they would vote. for the most
unsuitable candidate. V
Such a situation, i f true,., is, ab-
solutely nightmarish. The future of
I.C. and indeed of the world would look
grim, i f the intellectual cream of Brit-
-ain are not capable of doing what tfee
whole population of America can do, riame-
-ly choosing their own president.
However I,feel more optimistio
about the" situation. I think that the.
there are a few thinking beings s t i l l at'
College who may be able to save us from
this catastrophe. In fact I think that
there are about 2,800 tiiinking beings to
save ua from this. I feel that the
students of this College, even given the
heady wine of "one man one vote", wouli?
behave in a completely sane and 3ober
manner. They ljould read about i t , think
about i t , talk' about i t , and I am confi-
-dent they would choose the right person
for president.
I w i l l ignore the fact that Finlay
thinka the president should be chosen
only by his personal friends, who, to
Finlays way of thinking, "know him1
.' I
will also ignore the faot that Finlay
Considers a president by 28 people to be
more truly representative than one chosen
by 2,800. Both these arguments are oo-
-viously fallacious.
In conclusion I would disagree with
Finlay on another point. The president
according to him, represents the "Union"
at functions outside College. If we
may truthfully c a l l the 28 members of
Counoil the "Union*then this i s true.
However, I personally feel that there a
are 2,778 other students who also should
save some representation.
D.3. Mercer.
Dear Sir,
In reply to Finlay MoPherson's art -
-icle opposing the demooratio election
of the I.G.. President X would like to
make the following points.
In the f i r s t place, oontrary to
what Mr. Mcpherson would have us believe
If our President were elected a3 o result
of a poll,, and presumably hustings, by
virtue of having to prove himself before
a highly critical audience, any nuoh
President would have to demonstrate his
oapabilities for the job in a way that
no I.C. President has yet even had to
consider.
My seoond point i s this;, in an age
when students are learning more about
less, and often abdicating reaponsibilty
in favour of material seourity, any added
responsibilty i s to be welcomed. To
pretend that I.C. students cannot show
a responsible attitude when given the
opportunity i s belied at the sober
approach shown at the last Union Meeting
when the Charity Carnival was discussed.
Finally, to eleot our President dem-
-ocratically would not force him off his
'pedestal'. Rather his popular mandate
would be increased and he would enjoy a
far greater freedom to aot on our behalf
than he does now.
Yours faithfully,
David Finney.
Dear Sir,
I should like to reply to the
two letters you have received regarding
the election of the president. Mr.
Finney s&ys that the Presidential
candidates would become known to the
students by appearing at -hustings.
This would briefly introduce him to
about J
4
O
O people, but the other
2,400 who could not bother to attend
a Union Meeting would s t i l l be able
to vote under the proposed polling
system.
Again, Mr. Finney points to the
responsible discussion which took place
at the last Union Meeting over the I.C.
Carnival. At this discussion a maximum
of 20 people took part before an
audience of about i+}0. Another 2,350
students were not interested enough to
attend to discuss either the Carnival or
the mode of election of the President
(which was also on th£ Agenda). I find
it hard to believe that these people are
responsible or interested enough to select
aanyone.
It i s rather difficult to take Mr.
Mercer's hysterical outburst, seriously.
D. Wilbraham.
Dear Sir,
Who i s the idiot who wants women in
the Bar ? The men of I.C. are almost
alone in their resolution to keep
women in their place. If we let women
enter the Bar, the thin end of the wedge
will have been inserted. Having
obtained entry into that male Holy-of-
Holies, the Bar. they will take an even
larger part in the running of our Union.
In faot, Sir, they will oulminate. , In
the words of the Prophet, "There w i l l be
weeping and gnashing of beer-mugs in that
I.C. Bar."
How can any sane man allow women lit
the Bar ? The only result i s that a l l
the pure and innocent young ICWArians
become less pure and innocent, whioh I,,
am sure you w i l l admit i s rather a pity*
No Sir, keep them out i s the cryt
Yours faithfully,
A Wellwisher (Jim)
and an ICWArian (Nameless)

