Classic Commemoration
By Ed Sexton
Photo: William Students perfect their image for the official photographer
Racism Rife in Medical Schools
Last Wednesday brought out the gowns
and relatives for Imperial's annual Com-
memoration Day, when the year's grad-
uates arc processed in front of their
constituent college's dean in the Royal
Albert Hall. It was also the occasion for
the presentation of three new fellows to
the college,- Professor John Archer, Pro-
fessor Nay Htun and Professor J Trevor
Stuart.
the day commemorates the visit of
King George VI and Queen Elizabeth
(now the Queen Mother) to the college
in 1945. to celebrate the centenary of the
foundation of the Royal College of Chem-
istry. The afternoon began shortly after
2pm with a procession of the Deans,
Pro Rectors and other dignitaries. David
Hellard, ICU President, opened the cer-
emony with a short speech, before the
Rector, Sir Ronald Oxburgh, gave the
address. Commenting on the vast num-
By Andrew Ofori
The name of London's medical schools
has been muddied this week, as allega-
tions of institutionalised racism circulate.
The medical fraternity has been stunned
by the results of a new report complied
by UCL's Prof McManus, formerly an IC
affiliate, as recently reported in The
Guardian. It claims two-thirds of the 27
medical schools admitting students dis-
played discrimination against ethnic
minority applicants.
The report was commissioned by
the Council of Heads of Medical Schools
as a response to rumours of racism,
which have been pervading medical
schools for over a decade. It compared
the proportion of ethnic 17 and 18 year
olds who applied to the proportion that
received offers; the result was a league
table highlighting the schools which
were deemed to show bias against eth-
nic minorities. Imperial College has been
'black-marked' along with UCL, King's
London, St. George's Hospital, Leeds,
Leicester and Manchester, in contrast to
schools like Bristol and Newcastle that
have emerged as completely impartial.
The table is to be placed on the Internet,
arousing fears that the selection of non-
while students will be affected. One
ICSM student told Felix that a number of
his contemporaries refused to apply lo St
Mary's "because of its reputation". The
McManus report also revealed that male
applicants were at a disadvantage when
applying for medicine.
Prof McManus is somewhat con-
cerned with his findings stating "Ihe dis-
advantage of non-white applicants and
of males would be construed as prima
facie evidence under the Race Relations
Act 1976 and the Sex Discrimination Act
1975."
Various parties from medical acade-
mia have called the report's legitimacy
inlo question, faulting the omission of
factors such as GCSt results, A1
Level pre-
dictions and the social aspect of appli-
cants when drawing its conclusions.
Imperial College claims to have
taken the findings into consideration,
but states that the medical admissions
procedure is in a state of reform as a
result of the recent merger. The college
maintains "ICSM is committed to ensur-
ing that its selection process is unbiased
and appropriate for its educational role."
WadeGayed, ICSM Union President,
condemned the blacklisting of the col-
lege as "absolute horseshit." Adopting
the line taken by many of the named and
shamed medical schools, Gaycd was
insistent that the admissions statistics
were a more than adequate contradic-
tion to the McManus report. He viewed
ICSM as "culturally diverse" and failed to
sec how an analysis of last year's admis-
sions figures could be associated with a
newly instituted school. He went on to
describe the ICSM admission office's
new initiative lo create an admissions
policy "so transparent, if any member of
the public dares to come and look there's
no way they can turn around and say
your being racist."
Other medical schools 'black-
marked' such as UCL and Leeds were
quick lo join the; chorus of indignant
denial with a Leed's representative
explaining that they attach "the highest
priority to ensuring lhat procedures for
recruiting are impartial, fair and objec-
tive."
ber of building projects the college has
undertaken in the last few years, the
Rector explained that there was more to
come in the College's five year refur-
bishment plan, which would "probably
cost more than £100 million".
the presentation of graduates to
their Deans then followed. Many grad-
uates had brought along reading mate-
rial to keep them occupied during what
is renowned for being a long afternoon.
In the end, however, the presentation
was over reasonably quickly, helped by
the orator tcading out the names of the
ICSM graduates quicker than they could
cross the stage.
Photo montage on page 3
I n s i d e . . .
Letters 6
Editorial & RAG 7
Columns 8
Elections 10
Cartoon 12
Computer Games 13
Arts 14
Music 18
Clubbing 22
Film 24
IC Radio 25
Clubs & Diversions 26
Sports 27
XWord & Comps 28

