10
Election Manifestoes 2 November 1998
Which way to vote?
Next Monday and Tuesday IC goes to the poles to elect a new Deputy President (Clubs & Societies).
So what are the options, and why do these people deserve your votes?
Stuart Cook
I know I can do this job, and the aim of this
short article is to persuade you, the (wonder-
ful) voter that I can. I've been at IC for five years
now, and I know the structure of the Union as
well as anyone. I know how the clubs and soci-
eties operate though I appreciate that as
Deputy President I must listen to people's views
on their societies and act accordingly.
Initially my aims include striving to capture
further sponsorship for the individaul clubs
and societies. Also I plan to sort out the situa-
tion regarding coach travel to our sporting fix-
tures. Wouldn't it be great if we had subsidised
travel to all games? Regarding the BUSA situ-
ation, the status quo does seem ideal, but if
BUSA object then we need to make the best
of a bad job, with the ultimate long term aim
of merging the different factions in IC.
As some of you might know I've been
involved in ICUAEC for all my time here, being
a Championship winning Captain, a successful
Vice-Captain and the Treasurer. In my younger
days I used to get thrown out of the Union on
Wednesdays but now maturity has set in and I
just pass out in comers when I get drunk.
PS I have great communication skills
PPS Don't vote New Election or I'll look a
dick if I lose
New Election
Hi there. Well I'm New Election (sometimes
known as Re-Open Nominations or RON) and
I'm your chance to express a no vole for the
candidate. After all, the sabbaticals have man-
aged so far h aven't they? Surely they don't
need a Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)?
Well that's your decision to make. I would
advise you to think carefully though. By voting
for me there will be another round of elections.
Will there be any more candidates standing
next time for this position? Would they be any
better than this time?
However you feel, make sure you exercise
your democratic right and vote one way or the
other. If you don't vote you can't complain
about the job being done.
Whilst I'm here did you know I'm also a
candidate in all the other union elections? Posi-
tions such as Haldane Music Buyer. Check out
the Union Notice Board to see the ones I'm talk-
ing about.
With drawl
Rostam Kilgour, the other fully sec-
onded candidate for Deputy Pres-
ident (Clubs & Societies), has
withdrawn from the election. Con-
firmation of his withdrawl came on
Monday 26 in a letter to ICU Pres-
ident David Hellard. No specific
reasons for his decision were
stated.
Hustings
Hustings will take place on all cam-
puses this week:
South Ken : Monday, 6pm
Charing X : Tuesday, 6pm
St Mary's : Wednesday, 6pm
I C U C I N E M A PRESENTS:
SPECIES
Wed 4th (6pm) & Thurs 5th (8.30pm)
Concert Hall
Union Building 2nd Floor \
Drinks available from Da Vinci's
A l s o Showing
Dark City W e d 4th (8.30pm)
Divorcing Jack Thurs 5th (6pm)
Z U L U Sun 8th (7pm)

