14 Arts 2 November 1998
MIRROR IMAGE: JONATHAN MILLER ON MIRRORS
National Gallery, Sainsbury Wing
J
onathan Miller's latest foray into
the arts is an exhibition on the
depiction of mirrors and reflections
in painting. Cynics might think that this
is Just one in a long line of post-mod-
ernist books/plays/exhibitions; taking
some inanimate object and then spin-
ning out a single trivial insight into reams
of pseudo-drivel. In the case of this exhi-
bition, the cynics would be
wrong. In fact, mirrors have
always fascinated artists, not
just for their entertaining
optical effects, but also their
ability to give subtle meaning
and dimension to a painting.
Critics have suggested
that Miller is out of his depth
in the visual arts and should
stay on his more familiar ter-
ritory of opera, intellectual
musing and corduroy jack-
ets (sorry about that last
one). I disagree and think
Miller's treatment of mirrors
in art makes the subject
accessible and exciting.
Miller's talc covers various themes, tied
in together with an audio commentary
and a short documentary film. The exhi-
bition uses both well-known and less
famous paintings as examples, reintro-
ducing you to all those works you've
seen somewhere but just can't name.
Artists often paint mirrors to create
some quirky optical illusion. Ask your-
self this question: when you see a mir-
ror in a painting (or even a photo), how
do you know that you are looking at a
mirror? Of course the answer is because
you see a reflection. This may appear
obvious but the exhibition explains that
if you blot everything out except the mir-
ror, you can no longer tell whether you're
looking at a real object or a reflected
image. What this means is that the brain
requires a context to understand it is
actually looking at a reflection. The clas-
sic example is Jan van byck's Arnolflnl Por-
trait (this contains the most famous
mirror in art history in case you didn't
know).
So on some level, the exhibition
takes the form of an illusionist's show.
But for me, the key message was that
mirrors also add emotional depth to a
painting. Miller comments that "reflective
surfaces give us the opportunity of look-
ing in one direction and seeing in
another". He means this both in the lit-
eral and figurative sense. Imagine an
empty Parisian cafe with its walls covered
by gilt mirrors; the painting In a Cafe by
Gustave Caillebotte depicts just such a
scene with a man standing with his back
to one of the mirrors. By some magical
process, his reflections imply that the
person is isolated and lonely.
I could bore you with this stuff for
hours, so the best thing is to go to sec
the exhibition for yourself. Aside from
admiring the beauty of the paintings
and gaining insight into the minds of the
artists, you won't ever be able to sit
through a nine o'clock lecture on chiral-
ity without a knowing smile. And in the
mornings the simple act of staring bleary-
eyed at your reflection in the bathroom
mirror will assume a whole new meta-
physical significance.
William
Until 13th December
Nearest tube: Charing Cross/Leicester
Square
Admission: £5.50, concessions £3.50
Opening hours: daily 10am - 6pm (Sun-
days from 12pm, Wednesdays until 8pm)
SPEED: VISIONS OF AN ACCELERATED AGE
Whitechapel Gallery
F
rom the moment you step
through the doors of the gallery
and hear the continuous, dis-
jointed ticking emitted by a row of
metronomes, each set at slightly differ-
ent rhythms, it is clear that Speed is
going to challenge the spectator's
senses.
The curator of the gallery uses a
wide variety of media, ranging from
sculpture to photography, to demon-
strate how the idea and measurement of
speed permeate our everyday life - and
even how speed itself Is getting faster!
My favourite piece from this varied
collection was Rachel Lowe's video instal-
lation entitled A Letter to an Unknown
Person. At first, all that can be seen is the
countryside zooming past a camera in
the passenger seat of a car. Her hand
reaches up into shot and she then
attempts to sketch the scenery with a
record all that is happening to each indi-
vidual comes across very clearly.
Another work which caught my
attention was Lime Works: Blasting by
\agova llatakeyama (pictured centre).
The artist has created a series of arrest-
marker pen as it flashes by. Initially, the
artist snatches small parts of the land-
scape onto the windscreen, but the
experiment quickly degenerates into a
meaningless scribble of disjointed lines
and meaningless shapes. The comment
on the fleetingness of modern life and
the insanity of the current attempts to
ing images depicting a limestone quarry
in various states of destruction. By using
enlarged prints and high-speed photog-
raphy, minute details can be made out.
This dizzying intricacy is the feature that
enthrals the viewer - the very thing which
the average individual cannot attain in
day-to-day life has been presented here
in glaring colour and at a huge scale.
With many other interesting exhibits
on show (including wooden and hairy
cars), Speed is well worth an afternoon's
attention - just don't rush it!
Joel
Until 22th November
Nearest tube: Aldgate Last
Opening hours: daily (except Mondays)
11am - 5pm (Wednesdays until 8pm)
Admission: £4, concessions £2.50 (FRLE
on Tuesdays)

