16 Arts 2 November 1998
ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA National Theatre, Olivier
S
hakespeare's plays have always
formed Ihe best British actors or
so we are made to believe. And
even if they didn't start with the Bard,
actors always seem to return to him. This
is indeed the case for Helen Mirren
(Prime Suspect) and Alan Rickman (Truly,
Madly, Deeply). They are the main attrac-
tions in this new version of Antony and
Cleopatra. Director Sean Mathias (famous
for A Little Night Musical the National a
couple of years ago) has opted for a
very contemporary ensemble. The mod-
ern design is well done; an amazing
wooden set with panels going up and
down allows actors on and off the stage.
The fresh feel is slightly misjudged how-
ever and the directing lacks vital energy
and pace.
The story is well known, centering on
the love affair between Cleopatra, Queen
of Egypt, and Mark-Antony, a Roman
commander. They lead a life of pleasure
and lust, surrounded by their court and
slaves (a very lush evocation of that
period!). Back in Rome, Caesar orders
Antony to return and marry his sister,
Octavia. Cleopatra is desperate, but
Antony eventually comes back to Alexan-
dria to find her. Caesar declares war on
them and Antony's men simply desert
him. feeling betrayed by Cleopatra, who
falsely sends a messenger to tell him she
has died, Antony commits suicide and
dies in her arms. Cleopatra then also
ends her life.
The actors are slightly out of place:
Alan Rickman just doesn't fit in with the
image of the passionate Antony - he
lacks total drama and fugue. Helen Mir-
ren just about gets away with her inter-
pretation of Cleopatra. Even though she
is not amazing, she does manage to
convey her character's self-centred and
witty personality. The rest of the cast
tries its hardest to keep the interest going
for the three and a half hour duration of
the play and proves mildly entertaining.
The good points of this production
remain the lovely sets and costumes, as
well as the final ten minutes that I found
particularly exciting and daring. A few
sparks do fly here and there in a pro-
duction that is overall quite boring and
difficult to sit through. If you have never
seen a Shakespeare play on stage, this
may not be the best choice for starting
out. If however you are a big fan of Mir-
rcn's, then you won't be too disap-
pointed.
It's a pity that Sean Mathias, who has
so often charmed and shocked specta-
tors with his innovative work, has come
up with such a quiet and slow produc-
tion.
D.
Until 3rd December
Nearest tube: Waterloo
tickets: standby places available for stu-
dents (check beforehand) £7.50
VIA DOLOROSA Royal Court Theatre
A
nother fantastic play presented at
the Royal Court a few weeks ago
was David Hare's latest, highly
personal creation, Via Dolorosa. It centres
on a visit he made to Israel and his expe-
riences over there.
David Hare is one of Britain's most
talented playwrights; his more recent
works include Amy's View, The Judas Kiss
and the adaptation of The Blue Room
(starring Nicole Kidman). This play was
like nothing else he has done in his
career; a sort of "one man show" where
he stood alone on stage for ninety min-
utes, reciting his own story. He described
an issue that he now holds close to his
heart - the situation in the Middle East,
and more precisely in Israel. As he him-
self says, "no other problem of our time
is rooted so deeply in the past".
Hare travelled to Jerusalem to put on
a play, which he explained was a collab-
oration between an Israeli, a Palestinian
and a Brit. He then proceeded to tell var-
ious anecdotes and funny stories, caused
by such a partnership. Hare was often
hilarious and managed to introduce
humour to what is, in fact, a very dra-
matic crisis. Having met many intellec-
tuals in Israel, as well as a few politicians,
he visited the territories of Palestine.
These scenes were extremely amusing,
with people debating different political
questions over lunch.
The actor managed to explain more
about the Middle Easl - its history, its
aspirations and its difficulties - than any
History book or journalist around, since
he had no preconceived ideas. He did-
n't suggest any solutions to the problem,
instead leaving it to the politicians (who
seem to have finally found some form of
agreement considering the peace deal
signed last week). His interests lay with
the individual; the everyday struggle for
one's identity and culture. It was fasci-
nating that he should select such a par-
ticular theme for his play, yet succeed in
making it so universal. He showed off an
impressive gift for story telling. In short,
these special real-life experiences were
tremendously uplifting. If this transfers to
the West End, as I have been told it may
do, I urge you to go and watch the per-
formance, as it is compelling and ulti-
mately so rewarding!
D.
PHEDRE Albery Theatre
I
remember frequently studying
Racine's work at school, sometimes
very fondly. His plays evoke the history
and myths of Ancient Greece, which
form such a fundamental basis of our cul-
ture. Ted Hughes has just completed a
new translation for the tondon stage
and I'm sorry to say that it's far from suc-
cessful. Some passages sound horren-
dously out of place and the quality of the
language is very poor compared to
Racine's original trench. Hughes has
tried too hard to modernise the charac-
ters and too often completely misses
the point. It's a bit of a waste really.
Phedre is married lo the King of
Athens, Theseus. She is also deeply
attracted to Hippolytus, his son from a
previous marriage. As this love is forbid-
den by society, she lives in a continual
nightmare of suppressed emotions. In
order to rid herself of this burden, she
forces herself to be dismissive and harsh
towards Hippolytus, which naturally
causes her even more pain. She finally
decides to confess, leading to the play's
tragic end.
Alive in the 17th century, Racine nev-
ertheless raises issues that are relevant
today. The pressures of society in general
often restrict individuals by not allowing
them to express their deep feelings. The
influence of people around us, advisers
especially, which can bring about disas-
trous situations. However the playwright
talks about incest without expressing his
point of view; he just portrays a woman
desperately in love with her stepson - no
judgement is made, no solution given.
The original play is fascinating and
brilliantly written - only the company
has messed everything up. Hughes has
come up with a terrible translation and
the acting is mediocre. This is particularly
surprising since the cast is full of tal-
ented people: Diana Rigg, for instance,
who has enlightened the London stage
for quite a few years now, turns out to
be a particularly unsubtlc Phedre. She
hardly shows any of the pain the char-
acter experiences and most of the time
makes Phedre look ridiculous. The rest of
the cast is no better. Only Toby Stephens'
Hippolytus manages to keep the right
tone. Many people actually found the
play quite funny. Now, if the audience is
laughing so much during a tragedy, then
there must be something drastically
wrong with the production. Old tragic
plays haven't had a decent West End
run for a while and it's a real shame to
witness such a failure. The same com-
pany is also preparing Britannicus... Wc
can only hope for better quality from
such potentially good talent.
D.
Until 28th November
Nearest tube: Leicester Square
Tickets: student standby £10 subject to
availability

