18
Album Feature
Music 2 November 1998
You've Come A Long Way, Baby
YOU'VE COME A LONG WAY, FATBOY!
Former Housemartin Fatboy Slim (aka Norman Cook) Is now a household name. Recently he's picked up DJ awards left, right and centre. Now he has the pleasure of
receiving a Felix four-star review for You've Come A Long Way, Baby and an In-depth feature. Who says he hasn't got It all?
afeller Skank, which peaked at number six. That ford
Finesse vocal sample combined with that twangy surf-
guitar sent crowds into disco oblivion. It was indeed a
warning shot!
Even before it's release, the album blossomed
with success. The RockaFeller Skank has been chosen
as the lead song
in, arguably, this
year biggest
video game:
FIFA 99 from
Electronic Arts.
with 1998 Remixer of the Year. Not just that though -
in Cook's own words: 'Jason Nevins sent a fax where
he wrote 'I just heard the song [The RockafellerSkank].
You are a fucking genius.' That's nice for me. It's impor-
tant for me; the two biggest kicks being making a pop
record everyone likes, but also getting the respect of
my peers."
You've
Come A Long
Way, Baby is
numbing musical catch-phrase where nowith their feet
'He's a master of finding an
inescapably alluring chorus or a brain-
one would think to search for one/
Norman Is very Intelligent, Mrs. Cook, but his
attention does seem to wander at times....
F
or fifteen years now, he's been making music
to serve all listening pleasures. From his career
starting 80's brit-pop band. The I lousemartins,
to the dub heavy band Beats International, to becom-
ing one of the world's most sought after DJs and the
forerunner of a movement called Big-Beat, a mainly
English groove that mixes hip-hop and techno for a
dance-floor-friendly sound that often adds a human
element through cleverly employed, repetitive vocal
hooks. Brighton-born DJ, Norman Cook, has indeed
come a long way, baby. Being the same person was
never going to satisfy Norman Cook, resulting in many
aliases, some
better known
Football fans will
get so much
more for their
money when it
is released at the end of November.
Fatboy Slim knows how to find a pop hook where
none exists. I le's a master of finding an inescapably
alluring chorus or a brain-numbing musical catch-phrase
where no one would think to search for one.
The Rockafeller Skank's vocal hook, altogether
now, 'Right about now, the funk soul-brother / Check
it out now, the funk soul-brother,' was lifted from a
record featuring American rapper Lord Finesse. Fatboy
could have easily gotten someone to sing or rap for it,
but the idea is to make a lead vocal out of something
that wasn't and make it so you can't recognize it... so
he don't have to pay for it! Well done!
I lis current outing, Cangsta Trlppin', an old-school-
funk-meets-new-school-rap/skajam, is built on a narcotic
hook no other DJ would have thought to use. The song
samples bits from DJ Shadow's Entropy and the song
Beatbox Wash by the Dust Junkies.
The mesmerizing Build It Up, Tear It Down, like
...Skank, manages to
meldasurfy, English
than others,'....in terms of musical talent, he's an rock sensibility to a
releasing sin- techno arrangement,
gles under obese piece of genius.' while In.Heaven is
the names of
Pizzaman [Pizzamania), Freak Power (who can forget
Tune In, Turn On, Cop Out?), Mighty Dub Katz (the
dub anthem Magic Carpet Ride) and many more.
Fatboy Slim is, in fact, the latest guise of Norman
Cook. I le's not fat at all, but in terms of musical talent,
he's an obese piece of genius.
I le's not a newcomer to chart success, hav-
ing already had Top 40 singles in the UK under six dif-
ferent names including two number one singles. It was
almost three, but Tune In, Turn On, Cop Out peaked
out at number two. Now, under the alias of Fatboy Slim
comes a new album, You've Come A Long Way, Baby.
This is Fatboy's second offering (well, third if you count
the club session Live From The Floor OF The Boutique)
after his hugely successful Better Living Through Chem-
istry, a tribute to his friends The Chemical Brothers.
Way back in March, Fatboy premiered The Rock-
perhaps the most
innocuously dirty song Fatboy has recorded to date.
Consisting only of the phrase 'Fatboy Slim is fucking In
heaven' supplied by rapper Freddy Fresh looped over
and over again, over a spare organ-lick and Fatboy's sig-
nature fat-beats - another example of fatboy finding an
unlikely hook and milking it for all it's worth.
The album also manages to mix in samples of
church choirs, obscure rappers and even childrens'
author/former pop-singer Camille Yarborough on the
gospel-funk tune Praise You.
Norman Cook's production was never in doubt -
producing every one of his own tracks and many more
for the likes of Bootsy Collins, Urban Allstars and feel-
good Factor. I lis remixing skills are not to be chal-
lenged either, having already done remixes for Digital
Underground, INXS, Jungle Brothers and many many
more. It's no wonder that Muzik Magazine awarded him
firmly on the
dancefloor
but with
enough
depth, width and mirth to make things a lot more
interesting. From the momentous backward strings of
Right Here, Right Now and the funny radio intro to The
Rockafeller Skank (no joke - this is a live radio record-
ing from WBCN in Boston!) this is Fatboy Slim at his peak.
It features many more pop-vocal hooks than his previ-
ous album while still maintaining the DJ's lightheaded,
....he's also prone to screaming for no apparent
reason. This disturbs the other children and
should not be encouraged
party attitude and his facility at creating innovative
beats - Norman Cook in the I louse of Love (his little stu-
dio at his Brighton home) producing the tracks that have
helped put Big Beat on the global musical map.
Uniike the first album sledge-hammering on your
head, saying 'Dance, have fun!', this one is more
thoughtful; you can listen to it all the way through and
not feel violated by it. You've Come A Long Way, Baby
is all good. E
3
Abu

