2 November 1998 Music 19
ELECTRIC CAFE
dBs
G
o to the Union on a Saturday
night? You must be joking, or
at least very bored. Surely
London's nightlife, or the crowded
atmosphere of Southside Bar, provide a
far better environment in which to
spend the evening...
Last year I would have agreed with
this view, encouraged it even. Apart
from the bars the Union did not have
much going for it at the weekend, and
was no match for the pubs and clubs of
fondon. Things are changing, however.
The new dBs, coupled with some deter-
mined students, has allowed the cre-
ation of two new monthly Saturday night
dance nights. Electric Cafe is one of
them, and it's not at all bad.
Playing a spectrum of underground
dance, from house through techno and
drum 'n' bass to ambient, the dance
floor atmosphere is definitely different
from the regular Ents nights. It has more
of a club feel to it, the music is harder
and faster, the lights lower, the dancing
more free form. The DJing, although all
done by students, has a professional
edge to it - but then Electric Cafe has
been a regular show on IC Radio for the
last three years. They know their music,
and they know how to mix it.
Okay, so it is only open until mid-
night and is less crowded than weekday
evenings; on the opening night there
were about two hundred people in dBs
for the final hour. You may feel as
though you've wandered into a club in
that empty hour after the doors open. In
a way, however, this is what makes it a
good pre-clubbing night. You can take
advantage of the Union's cheap alcohol,
warm up your dancing shoes, and be on
the tube into the West End by half past
midnight. At the same time it caters for
those who just want a few drinks before
they go home - now you can have a
quick dance as well.
The music will not be to everyone's
taste but, If you like your dance, trance
and magic plants, you could do a lot
worse for no money. Congratulations
must go out to all those involved in
organising the night - now it's up to us,
the students, to make it a success. See
you on the dance floor, d
Ed
Next Electric Cafe, Saturday 7
November, 8pm - 12am, Free.
TINDERSTICKS
Donkeys '92-97'
M
odern day R and B infused
with soulful dynamics, a
gospel-tinged voice of angelic
beauty. I lang on, that's not
Tindersticks! Tindersticks? Yeah,
Tindersticks. Oh sorry, I thought you
said llinda I licks. Let's start again.
Dionysian abandonment and joy has
consistently spawned kick-ass, feel-
good music. Yet downbeat songs of
sobriety entertain an equal place in the
Parthenon of pop/rock music, the cold
melancholic undertow adds an insight
to the sea of life, a current of under-
standing that isn't clouded by rose-tint-
ed glasses, a consequential recognition
of a kindred spirit leading to relief and
contentment; sad songs that can make
you happy.
It is through such waters Tindersticks
have trawled since their inception in 92,
Stuart Staple's Cohenesque-vocals cou-
pling with subtle orchestration that does-
n't engulf and nullify the beauty of the
songs. I lello Embrace, are YOU taking
notes?
This collection presents the listener
with a broad overview of the story so far,
ranging from the well known (relatively
well known, that is, we are talking about
Tindersticks) to the obscure, fhe album
starts with their first singles Patchwork,
Marbles and City Slickness and the scene
is set. The glorious shuffle of Travelling
Light soon follows with Stuart and The
Walkabouts' Carla Thorgesson mourn-
fully reminiscing about what could of
been. A cover of Otis Redding's I've
Been Loving You Too Long is next, gen-
tly sliding through the mind with a pat-
ter of drums before reaching a
heart-wrenching crescendo of strings
and trumpet; you see Embrace subtlety
really can work. A cover of Pavements'
Here leads to Tiny Tears whete we find
Tindersticks at their most fragile, a song
of minimalist beauty.
As the album glides towards its
finale, A Marriage Made In Heaven
emerges through the elegant misery, a
farcical number featuring the woefully
inept Isabella Rossellini, and being all the
better for it. For Those... closes the com-
pilation with its quirky Casio-keyboard
refrain and as the Manics said so suc-
cinctly we're 'I lappy being sad'. CI
Chris
Singles
Calexlco - Stray
Very mellow with a nice use of samples. The first track,
Stray, sounds particularly good; there is latin influence
in the sound. Sadly this isn't followed through into the
b-sides, which aren't as good.
Essen - Supernatural
Dreamy and relaxing, although it never really invades
yourconcentration. This is pretty much sonic wallpaper;
put it on, then do something else instead. It's pretty
good and the title track has nice beats that fit in well.
The Paradise Motel - Hollywood Landmines
This tries to be too much. The song starts with a moody
bass and guitar, some subdued drumming and vocals
that really fit in. Then things are ruined by someone
deciding that a string section in the chorus would be
a good idea. A good song ruined by a bad idea.
Lukan - See You Dying
This is emotive arena rock. It's that simple. Actually it is
very well done, although the songs stray close to Live
(the band) in sound at times. With the right promotion
this band could be big, especially in America.
Bis - Eurodlsco
Bis will always be a band that are much better live than
on record. However, this song is actually one of their
better studio efforts, although it does sound a bit too
new romantic at times. The b-side Like Robots, however,
is a really bad song. It's a cliched idea that has been
done really badly here.
Portlshead - PNYC
I'm not sure what Is going to happen with this. It fea-
tures four tracks recorded live in the USA, which means
that it doesn't count as a single. It's definitely worth buy-
ing, as there is a nice balance between quite relaxed
bits and louder angsty bits. The live aspect of this sin-
gle Is a bit dubious, though, as the crowd is only heard
at the end of songs. H
Jamie
James - Sit Down '98
The remixing and re-releasing of such 'feel-good' and
chirpy toons are usually either storming hits or very big
mistakes. This '98 release contains two remixes as well
as the original version. Both of the remixes keep all the
lyrics with the second mix keeping the upbeat guitar bits
from the original in as well.
Really all that has been done is to replace the drums
with a few Dr Who theme tune effects. Very likeable
actually.
Fleece - 7
7
?
/
s Is What You Get For Love.
Cheesy quirky upbeat pop tune along the lines of The
Cardigans. Features the refrain 'what would you do with
a brain if you had one?' and closes with another refrain
'For Love', this time sung in a female Monty Python
voice. The b-side A Better Way of Living is quite 70's influ-
enced - the opening is reminiscent of T Rex and the
vocalist sounds like David Bowie. Also included is a
remix of the title track. Certain to be an MTV favourite,
even if it doesn't make the charts.
22 Pisteplrkko - Onion Soup
Anyone who writes a song based around the question
'Are we gonna have some Onion Soup?' deserves
some credit, even if it leads to the boy band style
repetitive chorus of 'She said Yeah' over and over and
over etc. This should appeal to all under eleven who pre-
fer a rockier edge to their prefabricated boy/girlband
drivel.
Komputer - Terminus
An instantly catchy dance tune with the occasional
upbeat keyboard refrain. Five different versions of the
same track on one CD mean that it can be a building
up, a winding down or a happening club action tune
depending on the remix chosen and the time of day
or night.
Purity - Interference
Republica-like lyrics spoken in a Saffron-like voice accom-
panied by fast pulsating beats, best describes InterFer-
ence. The other tracks Baby Universe and Dark Water
aren't as aggressive as the main track but make for mel-
low listening.
Wilt - No Worries
No wilting here - instantly likeable but grows even
more likeable each time you listen. Its a promo CD fea-
turing three upbeat rocky/indie tunes - No Worries,
Working For the Man and / Want it All'feature versatile
vocals and chunky guitars. Definitely one to look out for.
Swell - Make Up Your Mind
I did, rather quickly. It's dire. A title like this just asks for
a direct response, don't you think? Four tracks with
inaudible monotonic vocals accompanied by an annoy-
ingly buzzy guitar and drums. The last track is a cover
of the Stones' Street Fighting Man. Not even this saves
it. El
Katherine.

