2 News 2 November 1998
King's Lose Their Roar I n b r i e f . . .
By Brett Donovan
In a highly contentious series of events,
ROAR, the King's College Student News-
paper, has recently received a mention
in the House Of Lords. It transpires that
Baroness Rawlings was, as usual, mailed
a copy of the publication and was
enraged by the nature of its front page.
The 7 October release featured an arti-
cle on the problems of 'cottaging' within
college premises. The expose resulted
in a month's suspension for the editor,
The controversial cover
Rupert Matthews. The punishment was
decided upon at a disciplinary commit-
tee on grounds of contravening King's
equal opportunity policy.
The cover story tells of a problem
By Brett Donovan
The Conservative society played host to
the Rt. Honourable Michael Howard MP
this past Wednesday. Howard, the
shadow foreign secretary started by giv-
ing an anecdotal story about the disap-
pearance of Humphrey 'the downing
street cat' and went on to give a refined
summary of the fallibility of New Labour.
He spoke of the current financial situa-
tion facing us, including rising un-
employment and high interest rates. He
devoted time to talk on single currency
issues and Europe with sound reasons
and plenty of examples illustrating why
not to opt for the single currency whilst
defending the party's stance on 'no entry'
as opposed to the wait and see
approach. Much of his visit was spent
answering questions on wildly varying
subjects, with interesting and amusing
banter between the students and
with students and others using the fac-
ulty bathrooms to perform sexual acts. It
reports of "eye witnesses seeing cubicles
wobble". The issue was regarded by
many King's students as "the best issue
yet, with all 5,000 copies being snapped
up in record time". Equally astonishing
was the low number of complaints;
apparently "five out of a total student
population of 18,000 and no complaints
from the homosexual community". All
five complaints were made by medics,
some objecting to the additional graphic
in the female section depicting the cli-
toris. Many just can't see any problem
with the publication with a number of
people congratulating the ROAR team.
However this suspension has left the
students without the next two issues of
the fortnightly publication. The fate of
Matthews lies in the hands of King's stu-
dent parliament and a potential vote of
no confidence, and hence a sacking.
Inside sources suggest that at the very
least Matthews will have to compromise
ROAR's content, this may involve the
president of the union having to oversee
the publication before it is finalised for
printing. Matthews explained to Felix
that he was "simply trying to entertain
the students". These events may insti-
gate further repercussions for other stu-
dent newspapers.
Michael Howard makes his point
Howard. Anyone can attend a speaker
meeting, the next one is the 4 Novem-
ber (1pm -2pm) with Dr Liam Fox MP.
Details nearer time.
Medical Correction
A number of inaccuracies in last week's
story headed 'Medics Blow Cash' have
come to light since the article went to
press.
Firstly, the aborted graduation ball
was not organised by the Imperial Col-
lege School of Medicine Rugby squad,
and indeed did not have any connection
with the team. The Rugby squad arc in
the process of organising their own win-
ter ball, which has been organised
according to the correct procedures and
has been planned since last July.
Secondly, after negotiations
between ICU and the hotel in question,
the amount lost as a result of cancella-
tion fell from £7500 to £3000.
Thirdly, the Medical Freshers Ball,
over which concern was expressed in the
last issue, proved to be a great achieve-
ment. Over five hundred people
attended, with many declaring the ball
one of the best they'd ever been to. Con-
sequently, despite the last minute organ-
isation, the event was both a financial
and social success.
More Suspect Speakers
Dodgy white vans were out in force
once again this week. Operating from a
different van to last week, a white 5ft 6"
male with an Irish accent, black jeans and
quilted jacket was selling video recorders
and TVs. Speakers seem to have been
removed from this week's menu. One
student was approached and offered
these suspect goods, being threatened
after sensibly proclaiming "our student
newspaper has run a story about you, I'm
off to phone the police". As before,
felix's advice is; don't hand over any
money or get into the vehicle, and
report any encounter to us as soon as
possible or, if violence is threatened, to
the authorities.
BMS Sounds Bad
ICSM second years from Charing Cross
were left decidedly unimpressed with
the new BMS building on Wednesday.
The building, which has so far been
dogged with problems, certainly lived
up to its reputation. Uncomfortable seat-
ing, dodgy sound systems and unpre-
dictable alarms marred the first lecture
on the new site. The morning was inter-
rupted by whistling and lesling mes-
sages from an unknown source,
followed by a constant hissing and whin-
ing from the microphone and speakers.
Issue 1124
2 November 1998
Editor: Ed Sexton
Photographic Editor: William Lorenz
Music Editors: Jason Ramanathan and
Denis Patrickson
News Editors: Andy Ofori
Him Lditor: David Roberts
Games Editor: Gary Smith
Arts Editor: Helena Cocheme
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
Assault Charge
Reports have been coming in of a scuf-
fle at the well known medics' nightspot
Hombres' last week. A rather merry
fresher was knocked to the ground and
responded with a swift punch, unfortu-
nately selecting the wrong individual as
his assailant, resulting in a charge of
ABH.
Cycling Crackdown
Local Police are warning IC students to
avoid being caught out by Kensington &
Chelsea Council's latest crackdown. The
Council have decided that the greatest
social problem facing the local citizenry
is that of cycling on pavements. Eschew-
ing the traditional targets of drugs, mug-
ging, murder and rape, the Council have
instructed our local Met to charge all
those caught indulging in this heinous
act, with stiff fines awaiting the guilty.
Silly as this may sound, it has already
resulted in the prosecution of at least
one IC student, who was fined £75. So,
unless you too want to end up seriously
out of pocket, cycling should be confined
to roads and dedicated cycle paths for
the foreseeable future.
Hustings
Question and Answer sessions for the
candidates for the Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies) election will take place
on the three main campuses this week.
Today, hustings will take place in
South Ken, at 6pm in dB's. On Tuesday
those involved move to Charing Cross,
where hustings will take place at 6pm in
the Reynolds Building. Finally, on
Wednesday St Mary's hospital plays host,
with candidates gatheting at 6pm in
Gladys'.
Consoc Hosts Howard
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.icac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho I imited. Units B2 & B3, I latton Square, 16 -16a Baldwins Gardens, London LCI N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040 - 0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Felix 1998. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

