20 Music 2 November 1998
ilia Bomb!
puffy Announces IfaeBad B°y Jnvas ion
What up! Last week you missed out on your dose
of Tha Bomb but I'm back. The phat selection comes
with only three tunes this week, two from the Bad Boy
family who are looking to storm the charts with album
releases from Total, 112 and Faith.
Last week was dominated by news from the Bad
Boy camp. We start of with the MOBO awards from just
up the road at the Royal Albert I lall where Puffy picked
up the Outstanding Achievement award; thing is he's
still only in his twenties, so what they gonna give him
next time he comes over? At the MOBO's Puffy per-
formed a little medley of tracks, but the real story
comes from the sound check before. Puff spent over
an hour doing his sound check and Mel B came on ask-
ing to do hers, Puffy told her to fuck off before storm-
ing off himself. Mel apparently didn't take it to heart and
even called him incredible before he came on stage for
his performance. Me thinks she's trying to keep on his
good side, so she can ask him for help with her solo
career. Puff must know that helping Mel would be as
bad as doing a collaboration with Jimmy Page O shit,
he's already done that. As well as Puff, Faith Evans and
Total also showed up from the Bad Boy stable, both per-
formed live on stage. Faith kicked it with Love Like This
and Total rocked with their brand of street soul. The very
next day the Bad Boy Family cruised down to Sound
Republic in Leicester Square and performed in front of
a select, invitation only, group and anyone with MTV.
This was the first time Puffy has ever done a proper set
anywhere in Europe and he chose the just finished
Sound Republic, word from the curb is that Puff has
invested a bit of money in the restaurant, club complex.
The gentlemen of Bad Boy, 112, started things off with
Only You and then ran through some new stuff show-
ing off their vocal range and plugging their new album
Room 112 due to drop on November 9th. The first track
off it should be Love Me featuring Mase, its doing the
rounds on promo at the minute and if you heard it you
know its quite simply the bomb. The album also features
collaborations with the likes of Faith Evans and Lil Kim.
Total were next up, they performed the classic Can't You
See before dropping a coupie of tracks from their new-
album Kima, Keisha & Pam. Ihe first single to be lifted
from it is gonna be Trippin with Missy on production,
the track's not really worthy of Total and I hope the
album has more to offer, cos this is poor. Album to hit
the streets on November 2nd. Then came the woman
who is trying to lay claim to MaryJ's crown - Faith Evans.
~i f t K I \ -i n c
d.1 LI I E V a l l o
tarry an
next week vu tal e a h >
< >
k at the album that
lalls. This was the iitsl album from Ihe Bad
:&B tip and It set a high standard. At the time
ilks were claiming that Faith hadn't the ski IIz
im herself and that she was getting special
treatment: because she was the uiF of mega-star Biggie,
ler experience as a backing singer and writing partner
for Maryj Blige (queen of street soul) didn't mean a
thing fin certain people. But her a debul set Faith
realK on; pi >>ele to sit up and pav attention "ill
got the skill? and a little bit more, the album opened
up brilliantly with the classy No Other Love, then
came the Maty J penned mid tempo number Fallln
In Love and followed by the chunkv You Remind Me:
Faith slowed
; Rose Royce i
-vith a duet, with Maryj, cover of
we Don't I ive I lere No Mote. The
'To Love Me was up next, still one
love keeps on going with the stun-
the way to the wicke'd slow jam
Faith performed the monster tunes You Used To Love
Me and Soon As I Get Home with faultless vocals
before doing the stunning Love Like This. I ler new
album Keep the Faith is due out next month and you
know you gotta have it. After Faith's performance Puffy
seemed like a bit of an anti-climax, Lil Caesar helped him
out with the rapping (where's Mase?) as he raced
through the tunes Come With Me, Can't Nobody I lold
Us Down and many others including some Biggie clas-
sics. The night was closed out with a full rendition of
Missing You, Faith and 112 were both there as well as
a full gospel choir.
Just a quick word on the soul boys of Britain,
Another Level. I laving just picked up a MOBO for best
single for their massive hit Freak Me and just missing
out on the award for best newcomers (losing out to
David Lyden I lall). Now they're back with their latest sin-
gle Guess I was A Fool, this is a really classy tune with
excellent, tight production from the Blacksmith crew.
Guess I Was.... should cement their position as the best
British R&B group out there at the minute.
Milen
Stop The Presses
Where was Mase when Puffy was over here? When-
ever you see Puffy you normally see Mase, where Is
Mase? Well sources (Gbenga) say that he's parted com-
pany with the Bad Boy camp and has hooked up with
the pint sized Jermaine Dupri at So So Def Records. At
the minute It's all just rumours, but does explain why
III Caesar was helping Puffy at Sound Republic rather
than Mase. Another reason for the rumours Is that Mase
signed his new group Harlem World to the So So Def
label rather than to Bad Boy. Gets ya thinkln don't it,
anyway I'll keep you Informed.
Phat Selection
Love Like This - Faith Evans
Puffy samples Chic's Chic Cher to
create the tune of the year, where's
the album?
Love Me -112 featuring Mase
The hugely talented 112 return
with this wicked tune sampling an
old Luther Vandross track and Mase
featuring with the rap.
Little Bit ofLovIn - Kelly Le Roc
Classy British soul, beautifully
smooth vocals over a lovely keyboard
riff.

