2 November 1998 Music 21
Dance Music
yveirs
Welcome to another week of the Electric Cafe. If
you're still in the period known as "Fresher's Blues" then
we've got two great events lined up this week. So for-
get about work and projects and other depressing top-
ics and come down!
first up is the Electric Cafe club night at DB's in IC
Union this Saturday (7/11/98). This runs from 8pm till
midnight and is absolutely free! The first one turned out
to be a great evening. We'll be playing all sorts of elec-
tronic dance music, from techno to big beat; house to
drum'n'bass. Perfect on its own or as a warm up for
something later!
Two days before, on the 5th November we'll be
hosting another Electric Cafe chill-out bar at Southside
(the backroom). It starts at 7pm and runs until closing
time! This is turning out to be a very popular event. You
can come and sit around and drink and listen to music.
The music policy is eclectic and more on a relaxing tip
than anything else. We played house, hip-hop, chilled
drum'n'bass and big-beats two weeks ago. Special
guest on the night will be DJ Darren Nesbeth with a
great selection of breakbeats!
If you would like to DJ at an Electric Cafe event at
Southside then drop me an email (a.sethi@ic.ac.uk). All
you need is an interesting record or CD collection. An
ability to mix is not at all essential. So if you'd like peo-
ple to hear your favourite tunes, then get involved!
Focus On Tag Records
"sound" of the shop. The only styles that
Tag doesn't sell, according to Steve, are
the three G's - Ooa, Gabba and Garage.
Tag attracts some the top DJs from
around the world to make visits when
they stop off in fondon. Ritchie I lawtin,
Luke Slater, Mr C Kevin Saunderson, Billy
Nasty, Jim Masters and Darren Emerson
are just a few. But overall, Tag is a home
for lovers of quality club music. As well
as selling new releases from the most
well-loved and progressive record labels
from around the world, Tag also works
hard to unearth more obscure and often
quality music into the house or techno
sectors of the market. The first release
was In Da Jungle by Playboy (now called
Boy due to threatened court action by a
famous magazine of the same name!).
This EP proved to be a hit with many Djs
and clubbers alike and was featured on
the Kevin Saunderson mix album, Trans-
missions from Deep Space Radio on Stu-
dio !K7 records. Since then Tag haven't
looked back and each release has done
well, helping to build the strength of the
label. Regular artists include Ian O'Brian,
Daz Saund and Ben Tisdall. Laidback Luke
For those of you who want to buy
quality electronic music in the capital
(whether a DJ or just a music-lover), a
common problem is where to start look-
ing. Although some of the major stores
have picked up on the elctronic revolu-
tion and now sell a good range of under-
ground records, the best places have
always been the specialist independant
stores. As well as the artists and DJs who
contribute to the continuation of the
scene, I also want to write about the
shops that sell the music featured in
these columns, starting with Tag Records.
Tag Records is hidden away in a
back street in the heart of Chinatown, in
south Soho. The shop is the baby of
Steve Hanson and has been around
since 1991. This is good for an indepen-
dant store. Many have fallen by the way-
side in recent times.
Although Tag has fast gained a rep-
utation as one of the UK's leading hard
house/techno specialist stores, the
choice doesn't end there. The range of
music Is as broadminded as the people
who work there. Being a specialist store
puts Steve and his team in the privileged
position of being able to pick the records
they want to sell and thus represent the
Tag Records Chan
Skymaster - Murge EP (Offshoot)
Hollis P. Monroe - I'm Lonely (Wai
(Stickman)
Primitive Urges - Translations (Primit
Chump - Vega EP (Tag Records)
The Delinquents - Breaking the Law
Mark Ambrose - Syline (Mmifunk)
Doug E. Fresh - The Show (Big Hair Re
d)
Housey Doingz - Chess with Dwarves
Joel Mull - Archipelago EP (Inside)
Doodlebug - Loose in my Mind (Abni
overlooked labels. Tag also carries a well-
stocked back-catalogue with approxi-
mately 5000 titles listed.
You can search Tag's back catalogue
via the internet
(http://www.tagrecords.co.uk). The web-
site allows you to carry out intelligent
searches for records and even execute
direct sales. It is well worth checking out
this facility as it is regularly updated and
organised into fully serachable databases
conveniently labelled by style of music.
Now Tag has its own record label.
Launched in late 1996, it is called Tag
Recordings (!). The aim was to release
has also provided remixes for the label.
So if you're into music from around
the world that is defining hard house and
techno club culture then do check out
Tag Records!
Mark Callings from Tag Records has
very kindly provided us with a chart from
the shop for this week. Many thanks to
Steve, Mark, Linda, DJ Corrie and James.
Tag Records
5 Rupert Court, Soho
Allck

