24 Film 2 November 1998
Reviews
Halloween H20 * *
Adam Arkin, Josh Harknett, Michelle Williams
Ooooooh- Spooky
Starring : Jamie Lee Curtis,
Director: Steve Miner
H
orror movies are clearly back in
vogue, thanks to the massive
hits Scream and Scream 2.
Consequently all the big Hollywood stu-
dios have leapt upon the opportunity to
resurrect that jaded old format - the hor-
ror franchise. Witness December's
rushed appearance of / Still Know What
You Did Last Summer, hot on the heels
of last year's minor hit. Worst of all,
however, greedy execs have seized
upon the opportunity to resuscitate
those franchises that we all hoped were
dead and buried.
Consequently, we now see the biz-
zarely monicered Halloween 1120 thrust
upon us - the seventh installment in the
seemingly immortal Halloween franchise.
Michael Myers first started Jamie Lee
Curtis around with a "very big knife"I M
in
John Carpenter's original twenty years
ago (hence the title), and since then the
bodycount has steadily continued to rise,
whilst production values have slowly
evaporated.
All this was supposed to end with the
release of Halloween 1120 - a genuine
horror movie for the post-Scream gen-
eration. Indeed for the first three-quarters
of an hour you can't help feeling that the
writers have seen Scream once too often.
Young innocent girls are brutally stabbed
(preferably whilst wearing tight tops);
Jamie Lee Curtis gives a start every time
someone walks up behind her; and
everybody behaves as if they're really,
really stupid.
Yet where Scream was so successful,
Halloween 1120 falls flat. For starters, it
lacks the humour and self-knowing irony
of Wes Craven's recent work - so rather
than looking amusing and ironic, it just
looks stupid. Secondly, the direction isn't
in the same class. There's no sense of
tension or genuine fear. Above all, direc-
tor Steve Miner and writer Robert Zappia
commit the cardinal sin of predictability,
never leaving you in any doubt over
who's going to live and who's going to
die.
As far as the plot is concerned, the
premise is a simple one. Jamie Lee Cur-
tis has faked her death, moved to Cali-
fornia and changed her name from
Laurie Strode to Keri Tate. Now a suc-
cessful headmistress and mother, she is
still haunted by the dark deeds of her
brother, the infamous Michael Myers,
twenty years ago. Now those of you who
have hacked through the entire fran-
chise will recall that when Michael sup-
posedly died, they never found his body.
Obviously, in horror franchise terms that's
as good as saying he's still alive. Well,
now he's back....
Ultimately, however, it's the ending
that really spoils Halloween 1120. At less
than ninety minutes in length, there's not
enough time to develop any believable
characters or atmosphere, and conse-
quently the denouement just seems out
of place when it arrives. It's surprising, but
that doesn't stop it being bad.D
Dave
Record of Lodoss war * • *
Iria - Zieram: The Animation * * * *
P
ioneer, the company responsible
for distributing Lodoss War and
Iria has a good history of releasing
quality anime. Kishin Corps and The
llakkenden, despite their strange titles,
have offered a great deal of enjoyment
in terms of animation and storyline, so
were these two videos up to that high
standard?
Record of Lodoss War
R
ecord of Lodoss War is based on a
Japanese role playing game of
the same name. As with most
Pioneer titles the series spans over sev-
eral volumes (in this case six video
tapes) and so buying the whole series
may be prohibitive. The videos are a
mixture of Dungeons & Dragons and
the crusades, with King Marmo wishing
to seize control of the island of Lodoss,
while the main story centres on a young
knight (Parn), an elf (Deedlit) and a
dwarf warrior (Ghim). Within all conflicts
there are wars and bloodshed, and
Record of Lodoss War shows them vivid-
ly. The animation is detailed and
smooth and can't be faltered. I lowever
the dubbing tends to be a bit corny and
with the numerous characters with their
own stories to tell, it is easy to loose
track of the sub plots.
Iria Zieram: The Animation
D
espite only being given
Episodes 5 and 6 of this anime
to review, the basic plot is
extremely easy to grasp. Zeiram is a
being that simply melds and consumes
its enemies. With the ability to clone
himself and its prey, Zeiram is running
amok on the Iria's home planet Myce.
Looking past our heroine's attractive
armour and big gun Iria is a character
that has been tormented by the loss of
her brother to this monstrosity. The
video is a very original piece of anime,
attempting to reinvent the wheel in
terms of the overall design. The strange
vehicle and buildin designs and the
bewildering aray of gadgets are simply
enlightening and beautiful. Iria -
Zieram is a superb example of good
anime and with only three volumes it's
not that expensive.D
Magpie

