LSE Threatens ULU Divorce
the meeting, stated "I'd be stupid to
leave without a second vote". Clearly, this
raises questions over the real motives
behind the referendum.
I he entire process has also been
dogged by accusations of deliberate
withholding of information by LSE Union
sabbaticals. Concern has been voiced
by many over the ignorance of average
LSE students - only 28 people turned up
at a debate on the issue held last lues-
day night, and some spoke of "only two
or three posters advertising the referen-
dum anywhere in LSE". Indeed many of
those present at the debate had been
informed that it was taking place by ULU,
not LSLU. Furthermore, Beaver [the LSL
students' newspaper) has been criticised
for its alleged bias in coverage of the
issue - which included a clear recom-
mendation to vote "Yes" in the editorial.
LSEU figurehead Narius Aga blamed the
absence of an effective "No" campaign
on the simple fact that no LSE student
wanted to run the campaign.
Whatever the outcome, the process
itself will have important knock-on effects
for all ULU Colleges. Whilst LSE may ulti-
mately be forced to stay in ULU simply to
retain access to their gym and swim-
ming pool, those Colleges with their own
facilities - Imperial included - could soon
be looking toward life outside ULU with
more than just a passing interest.
By David Roberts
In a shock move first announced less
than two weeks ago, students at the
London School of Economics went to
the poles last Wednesday and Thursday
to vote on a referendum proposing dis-
affiliation from University of London
Union. Although the result was not
revealed until after Felix went to press,
a 'Yes' outcome was strongly suspected.
The referendum itself has been
drafted by the LSEU sabbaticals and
Executive, and asks for backing to leave
ULU, provided that three conditions are
met. Lirstly, all money currently paid to
ULU must be diverted back to LSEU (At
present a £16 000 negotiable payment is
made from LSE to ULU, whilst the remain-
der of LSE's £70 000 affiliation fee is paid
directly by the Higher Education Funding
Council). Secondly, a new representa-
tive body for all London students must be
set up. Thirdly, all LSLU sports teams
must be able find new leagues to play in.
At present the entire London League
system is administered by ULU, and LSE
have been told that if they disaffiliate
they will be forced to leave the Leagues.
Only once successful fulfilment of these
three points can be guaranteed will LSE
be able to leave ULU.
Explanations for the move vary, with
• • •
:
A}&id:A ™
Photo: Jonas
: :::: W ^ i:
LSE students carry on the daily grind
LSEU campaigners citing ULU's poor
record on campaigning, and their
allegedly undemocratic system of gov-
ernance. However, belief is growing
amongst senior sources that LSEU only
began the disaffiliation process as a bar-
gaining chip against ULU - which they
were then forced to carry through when
ULU called their bluff, this, it is rumoured,
is the reason behind the vague nature of
the proposal put before LSE students.
In any case, LSE cannot leave ULU
until 2000, as their current contract does
not expire for another three years. Fur-
thermore, LSL President General Secre-
tary Narius Aga, speaking to Felix after

