News 2 November 1998
Beer Fest in Trouble Malaysian Total Recall
By Gareth Morgan
The RCSU Beer Festival, usually the year's
most successful RAG event, has been
postponed indefinitely, because there is
currently nowhere to hold it. In the past
the JCR has been used, but the Director
of Catering and Conferences, John fos-
ter, has stated that in view of the recent
refurbishment it is no longer suitable;
consequently an alternative venue
should be found. One candidate is the
Union Concert Hall. Unfortunately, the
space and time needed for the festival -
fifty different beers, ciders and perries
which take five days to set up and settle
- mean that neither this nor various other
college areas are suitable. RCSU VP Bob
Walker, who is organising the festival,
admits that Mr foster has a point; the
event will cause a lot of disruption and
mess. However, the JCR is the only
licensed venue large enough for it.
Unfortunately, Mr Foster was unavail-
able to comment on the situation.
The problems with the Beer Festival
will probably set RAG week back until
next term, the I estival usually raises two
or three thousand pounds, a significant
portion of RAGs total income. ICU Pres-
:
... i.
Photo; Alikl Student morale falters as
JCR. dries up
ident David Hellard has been negotiating
with the College over the issue, and
hopes to persuade the Catering depart-
ment lhat the JCR is the only realistic
option. He said, "The JCR is a Union
room under the Memorandum of Under-
standing. Therefore it should be available
for use by the Union for an event which
has kept RAG afloat in recent years." The
suggestion lhat Catering should donate
an equivalent sum of money to that
raised by the Beer festival to RAG was
politely declined.
By Sunil Rao
The collapse of the 'tiger' Malaysian
economy has left many students fearing
recall to their home country, the num-
ber of Malaysian students arriving in
Britain in January and February 1998 was
already down 50% compared with the
previous year. It is estimated that a sim-
ilar drop will be noticed again next year.
With funding for students quickly evap-
orating, reports have emerged of stu-
dents being forced to return home or
look for alternative sources of funding
such as scholarships. Moreover, it was
reported in April that nearly 300 students
had applied to the tducation Ministry of
Malaysia to return home to complete
Iheir education there.
Britain remains the most popular
destination for students from Malaysia.
Nearly all are sponsored. However, fees
for overseas students run at over £10,000
per annum - not including other costs
such as accommodation, travel and
books. This imposes an additional finan-
cial burden on a country already in the
grip of a major economic crisis. The
Malaysian Embassy admits that a number
of students have been sent back home
but maintains that this only applies to
"under-performing" A-level students. Ear-
lier reports had indicated that a large pro-
portion of students reading Arts-related
subjects or at less prestigious Universities
would face recall.
Some Universities, heavily depen-
dent on the large sums paid by overseas
students, are anxiously looking to pro-
vide less expensive distance-learning
schemes in franchise with local colleges
within Malaysia. This has led to worries
in some circles that the end result might
be a fall in the standard of the 'British
degree'. On the other hand, if rigorous
standards are maintained, this endeav-
our might give many students the oth-
erwise unavailable opportunity to obtain
a world-class degree.
A comprehensive website featuring
links to the Asian Economic crisis can be
found at http://headlines.yahoo.com/
Full_Coverage/World/Aslan_Economic_
Woes/. The official website of the British
Council in Malaysia can be found at
http://www.brltcoun.org.my/. This site
has information on scholarships. The
official website of the Malaysian National
Recovery Pian is at http://mlr.com.my/
lb/econ_plan/.
NEED A COMPUTER?
COMPUTERS AT GENUINE TRADE PRICES
FROM DAWNLINK Ltd.
DESKTOPS FROM LAPTOPS FROM
£440 inc.VAT £899 inc.VAT
WIDE RANGE OF SPECS AVAILABLE.
ALL INCLUDE FULL WARRANTY!
CONTACT:
JOHN.ROBSON@IC.AC.UK
OR NJROBSON@AOL.COM
OR PHONE 01753-621040 (ANSAPHONE)

