2 November 1998
Editorial & RAG
Editorial
Commemoration Day
Somehow I survived the events of
Wednesday afternoon, only falling
asleep once during the presentation of
graduates In the Royal Albert Hall. Seri-
ously, though, well done to all those
who attended the event, be they stu-
dents, their relatives, or staff. Congrat-
ulations to all those who have graduated
(in which case what are you reading
this for?), and to the three new fellows
of the college. May there commitment
to Imperial College, which has brought
them their fellowships, continue for
many years to come.
I Like Medics. Honest.
Felix has never had a good reputation
among medics. Whatever the source of
this ill-feeling, I would like to say that
Felix has absolutely no 'anti-Medic' pol-
icy. In fact, this year there are more
medical students writing for Felix than in
the last two. Ill-informed letters do not
express the opinion of myself or the
newspaper - they merely show up the
prejudiced members of the South Ken
campus for the small and twatty people
they are. I would like to say more on this
subject... watch this space.
Rag - What does it mean?
A few friendly words from the new RAG Chair, Sarah Coburn, on what RAG
is and how you can help
Hi, I'm the latest mug who gave in to the
will to do something useful! Yep, I'm the
latest rag chair. This means that you will
be hearing a fair deal from me over the
next year, if you don't I'm not doing my
job right! Rag is the society within the
union that does the charity fundraising.
We're the ones who are supposed to do
completely mad things and at the end of
it all we're allowed to say "it's for charity
mate"!
This generally involves getting the
rest of London to part with as much of
their hard earned (or in South Ken. not
quite so hard earned) cash as possible.
I his is where you come in, see I'm
not here to ask you to part with your
money, we all know we wouldn't get very
far if we did that! I'm here to ask you to
help us raise lots of money for good
causes. This could mean being part of
the editorial team that produces the rag
mag. (a generally offensive publication
that is sold to raise money during rag
week), or even honing your accounting
skills.
The charities that have been chosen
to be supported this year are, Sheller,
Imperial Cancer Research, Avert (aids
education and research), Irinily Hos-
pice (Clapham), and IC Community
Action Group (Cag).
Rag's fundraising happens all year
round but are most prominent during rag
week. Rag week is a week full of slightly
'unusual' fundraising activities! this
includes a sponsored naked run from
Harrods to the Union, with a prize for the
person who takes the longest!
This year a challenge has been set
for the clubs which belong to the Recre-
ational Clubs Committee (Amateur radio,
Canoeing, Origami, Riding, etc. Trust me
you'll know if you're in one!). There is a
prize of free advertising in Felix for the
club which raises the most money by
holding a rag event. Let this be an
encouragement for you to all to get
fundraising!
What it ail comes down to though,
is that, without any help this years rag
won't be as successful as it could be. I his
would be a great shame as this years
charities are all very deserving. Please,
please help, as there arc people who
need our help.
Anyone interested in helping should
contact me (Sarah) at either
sarah.coburn@ic.ac.uk or rag@ic.ac.uk,
or on ext.58099. Alternatively I'm often
in the rag office at lunch times (the rag
office is through the union dining hall on
the right, or up the stairs in the back of
dF3's and on the left).
P.S. Rag stands for raising and giving!
I MOTOR COMPANY PRESENTS EXCITING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES GLOBAL OUTLOOK EARLY JOB RESPONSIBILITY on
OPPORTUNITY TO TRAI/EL EXCELLENT SALARY Ai BENEFITS PACKAGE TEAM WORKING CHANGING AND CHALLENGING
AID WORKFORCE MANAGED CAREER DEVELOPMENT
STRUCTURED TRAINING Ai DEVELOPMENT
For additional information please see your local Careers Service or visit our website: www.ford.co.uk/recruitment
b
<t/*/£ All vacancies at Ford are open to both men and women regardless of
ethnic origin in line with Ford's equal opportunities policy

