Cry Freedom
There seems to be some unwritten
law, which Richard Attenborough is
a firm believer in, that a film must be
at least two-and-a-half hours long if
it is to be an epic. And although the
two hours and forty minutes of Cry
Freedom did not by any means drag,
it could have profited well from some
selective editing and restructuring.
The film, which has been publicised
as the biography of Steve Biko, is as
much about the deceased black
activist as it is about Donald Woods,
the author of the two books Biko and
Askingfor Trouble, on which the film
is based. The plot divides neatly into
two halves, the first dealing with the
friendship that develops between Biko
and Woods, then the editor of a white
liberal South African newspaper, and
the second with how Woods slowly
begins to appreciate the views of
black consciousness. The second half
deals with Woods' plight after Biko's
death in prison and his subsequent bid
to flee from the restraints and dangers
of South Africa.
Attenborough would have done
well to concentrate more on Biko's
life and death, and less on Woods'
attempt to flee South Africa. B y
comparison, the second half lacked
any real tension anyway.
The parallels with Ghandi are
obvious and Attenborough is once
again drawn to a character who seems
to represent true goodness, hope and
tolerance in the face of open bigotry,
hatred and evil. However, the
advantage Attenborough had with
Ghandi was that he was re-animating
a historical figure, who to a large
extent had been forgotten, and also
the audience was able to proudly
condemn the terrible crimes of
another generation. Whereas now a
lot o f the audience may be more
familiar with the case of Biko, and
while condemning the visible evil in
South Africa, must remember that
they themselves live in a society that
does nothing to prevent this, and
indeed financially supports it. Some
people may not like being reminded
how unconcerned and uncaring they
are. But it is for this very reason that,
although Ghandi was a better film,
Cry Freedom is a much more
important one.
On a purely cinematical level, the
standard of the film varies greatly
from scene to scene. Attenborough
lets us down quite often with the
forced sentiment and cliched frames
of a few scenes, but the prevailing
emotions are real, and modern
audiences now no longer fall for the
heart-rendering departures; instead
they demand more realism. Although
Attenborough's direction is somewhat
disjointed at times, there are some
scenes where his touch shines
through, (primarily the brilliant
opening scene of the raid of the illegal
shantytown Crossroads and also the
'77 disturbances in Soweto, during
which 700 people died) and the
overall feeling of the film is right. The
film does become a political preacher
at times as Biko talks almost directly
to the camera, which is unnerving.
(I'd rather be shown the truth than
told it.) Biko's story works much
better on a humanitarian level, with
the stunning photography (a lot of
which was shot in Zimbabwe)
bringing an added contrast between
the beauty of the country and the
ugliness of the blacks' situation.
Denzil Washington has a difficult task
in creating the saintly character of
Biko, one of the main black leaders
who pushed f o r peaceful
confrontation to apartheid, into a
believable human being, but he copes
admirably. Kevin Kline is excellent
as Donald Woods, the liberal white,
who discovers that the blacks don't
want to be 'let into' the white society;
they want South Africa on their own
terms. There is a strong British cast
littered throughout the film including
Penelope Witton (as Woods' wife),
Timothy West, Ian Richardson, Alec
McCowen and most notably John
Thaw as the particularly nasty
Kreuger, Head of Police. A l l have
varyingly successful South African
accents ranging from Scottish to
Australian. It is notable that the
nastier a character was, the more
pronounced their South African
accent.
Despite its faults, Cry Freedom came
through as a strong film and as one
of the most important films of the
year. It deserves attention and should
be seen, for it raises issues which the
South African government has
managed to bury in the last year.
However, it should not be over-rated
just because of the worthy ideals it
supports. Although this may be the
best role of Kline's career it is not his
best performance, as some have
suggested. It reaffirms the general
condemnation of apartheid without
saying anything desperately new. On
the other hand; apartheid is wrong—
what more is there to say?
N.C.
FELIX Friday November 27th 1987 11

