L e t t e r s J4j
Indigestion
Dear Judith,
Just a quick note, having read the Handbook this year,
and also last week's copy of F E L I X . A n article on the
back page of the said F E L I X , entitled 'Yummie!', goes
on about M r Jardine's new 'adventurous' menu, forgetting
the fact that such food was on sale all summer, at my own
suggestion and instigation.
The Handbook article about the Snack Bar reads like
the libretto of an oratorio, singing M r Jardine's praises
as if he were some kind of culinary god!
Whilst not berating M r Jardine's efforts on the catering
front, I do feel that the hard-working casual, temporary
and full-time staff deserve to be given a few words of
praise now and again.
The friendliness and usual promptitude of the service,
as well as the laughs it affords to many customers, rather
than the boring impersonal service available in other
College outlets, is due exclusively to these staff, without
whom the place would never survive and would be a lot
less interesting. So less about M r Jardine and his pedestal
and more about the dedicated staff, who are, after all, just
students like you and are hopelessly underpaid.
Yours sincerely,
Pete Hartley, ex-Snack Bar casual, ex-Temporary
Catering Supervisor, Union Barman, ICU.
Selfish and
stupid flanning
Dear Judith,
I write to protest about being flanned without warning,
on the Thursday of the Rag Week, just before going into
an afternoon laboratory session and also about the
behaviour of the C & G Union president towards me the
following day. I was unaware that flanning was going on
that week, and that one could buy one's way out of being
flanned, or get a protective badge if one wore contact
lenses. I don't know who paid for me to be flanned, or
who actually carried it out.
I fully support charity activities which do not involve
the risk of someone being harmed but a person might be
unable to cope with being flanned for any number of
reasons. He might have ear trouble for example, a friend
of mine told me that if he were flanned, his nose would
bleed very badly, since it bleeds when under the slightest
pressure. Fortunately, my eyes were not harmed by the
flanning, but for all I knew at the time, they could have
been. I had major surgery done on my eyes this year. I
always treat any substance which might come into contact
with the eyes with caution, just in case it causes irritations
which might hinder the recovery of my eyes. I wear plastic
lens glasses which are very easily scratched. They are
delicate and expensive. The flanning could have meant
buying new glasses or repairing the present ones. For a
short-sighted person, to have one's glasses smeared up
is in itself a traumatic experience. Walking to a place to
wash glasses might in itself be difficult. Also, if I had
had to play in a concert that day, it would have been very
inconvenient having shaving cream all over my head. I
would have had to have gone back to International Hall
to get showered and change my clothes.
Flanning someone who has not personally been warned
by the flanners beforehand and given the opportunity to
say no is unacceptable, and very selfish of the flanners
who only think of the laugh they will get out of it, rather
than the problems it might cause to the victim.
I went to the C & G Union Office the following Friday
to complain about this. Some people there, but not the
president, were courteous and apologised about the
incident, although I disagree with their excuse for the
flanning. The excuse was that as much publicity about the
Rag Week was displayed as possible and that it was my
responsibility to find out about it. This excuse is as
ridiculous and unacceptable as that of a motorist who says
he is not responsible for running down someone who was
in his way, because he told the public beforehand that he
was not responsible for running down people who got in
his way, and that it was up to the unfortunate person to
find out about this. The people in the office said that it
would be too much effort to inform everyone, personally,
beforehand about the flanning. It is hardly any extra effort,
on the part of the flanners, to ask their victim before he
is flanned whether or not he can cope with it. This might
save a lot of ill-feeling.
The C & G Union president was very discourteous to me,
saying 'I don't have time to talk to people like you.. .leave
this office.. .turn your back around and walk through the
slit in the w a l l " . He did not apologise for the incident.
His behaviour did not befit that of a union president. He
should be setting an example of courteous behaviour to
all students. Is C & G Union becoming a fascist organisation
which will not hear people complaining, without being
told to leave the office? What may be a joke for a person
with healthy eyes may have a frightening effect on
someone who has already experienced encroaching
blindness and is concerned about protecting his eyes.
Yours,
Igor N Dyson, Mech Eng I.
Biased attitude
Dear Judith,
I am writing to point out what seems to be a rather
curious statement by Bill Goodwin in his article 'Is F E L I X
biased?'. Earlier this week, Bill telephoned me and asked
if Ian Howgate had been quoted out of context concerning
the Freshers' Week entertainments. I told him that I was
not prepared to offer an opinion, but that he was welcome
to come and listen to the tapes. As far as I have been able
to ascertain, he has not listened to any tapes at IC Radio,
and certainly not to the tapes that were broadcast, as only
I know where these are kept. In the light of this, phrases
such as 'In fact, listening to the tape' seem rather peculiar.
The two tapes that made up the interview were broadcast
in the first weeks of term, and have not been put out since.
Without going into details of whether or not Ian was quoted
out of context, it seems to me that a conscious effort has
been made to show that F E L I X is biased. Surely this shows
rather a biased attitude on the part of Bill Goodwin? Had
Bill contacted me in person, I would have been more than
happy to let him hear the broadcast tapes; all the News
Department interviews are kept, and anyone is free to
come and listen to them after they have been broadcast.
I hope that this letter will clear up any confusion that may
have arisen as a result of Bill's article.
Yours sincerely,
Nigel Whitfield, News Editor, Imperial College Radio
S m a l l A d s
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Wanted: Union van drivers for the Soup
Run. See Liz Warren, Chem Eng II.
• Burnard Sunley House Christmas Fancy
Dress Party on Sat Dec 5th in Union Lounge,
7pm to 12 midnight. Disco, live band and late
bar. Tickets £1 from Union Foyer, Mon to Fri
lunchtimes 12.30pm to 1.30pm.
• Deadline for retrieving belongings from
Linstead Hall is December 2nd.
• Basement sale Linstead Hall, 5th/6th
December, 2pm. Buy all the things you've
always wanted.
ACCOMMODATION
• 1 Male required for flat of 4 girls and 1 fella
in Fulham. £23 p/w (£33 without rebate).
Washing machine phone, TV, etc. Phone 731
1753 (evenings) or contact A M Taylor, Mech
Eng II.
FOR SALE & WANTED
• Bicycle: Olympus, 5 gears, £30. Contact
Amin Khataee, 5916, Materials.
• Renault 12TS 1974. Tax and MOT, many
new parts, very cheap and reliable Offers
around £300. Contact Stephen on 969 8402
PERSONAL
• Fun loving male seeks difficult problem
sheets. The harder the better. Apply Paul
Murray, Flat 9, 81 Lexham.
• Baa said Neil. No, this is how it's done, said
Paul: Bleuuuuugh!!
• Kebabs are such wonderful things-even
worth getting left in Kent for, eh Rob?
• Do you like enjoying yourself? No? Well Paul
is looking for company to do his work with
him, apply Flat 9, 81 Lexham.
• Keep your hankies at the read, Stu's
sniffing.
• Special offer: unused twelve pack for sale
Too much, to be sure, to be sure, to be sure
• To all Guildspeople: Don't you wish you'd
elected somebody else as President?
• Levels 1,2,3,4,5,6,9,10,11,12 your time will
come
• Hvftie etage-zut alors!
• Ottavo piano-che cazzi!
• Beware the banana spirit, he's after you!
• Edna oh Edna, oh oh uhh Edna oh uh Edna
oh oh oh Ednaaaa...
• For one month only at Edna's Sauna Club,
wet kipper and baby oil rub down only £100.
•12 burley firemen (I?) get the photos (or the
negs) from the RCS Office
• Is Cosmic a nancy boy?
• The caped Avenger would like to point out
that he requires budget cape cleaning services,
although Bridget is quite welcome to come
round. The Caped Avenger.
18 Friday November 27th 1987 FELIX

