• MC Enterprises present: 'Gift of the Gab'
with new no added subtlety.
•You don't want it said but we'll say it
anyway. Money back under no circumstances!
• ICSF members in the end, there can be
only one.
• The Kurgen likes necking-love Connor,
• Would-be Highlanders-mind your heads.
• Dai Williams: Your membership application
is being considered pending review of your
residential status. The Penthouse Club
Committee
• What were you on last night, Mike?
• Dear Girls, thanks for the lessons, Mike
• Why did Mike have a cheesy grin all last
week? Flat 129.
• Fortify yourself-a tasting of fine sherries. If
you thought that sherry finished with Bristol
Cream, think again. 6pm, Union SCR, Tuesday.
• Sean's been jilted.
• Rag Quiz scores: Nigel 15, Sean 19, Chas
22, Colin 26, Laura 41!!
• Soup Run, super fun. Warra naff pun.
Basement, Weeks Hall, Thursday, 9.15pm,
ICCAG.
• Rock Soc: Interested in any form of rock
music? Then come along to Southside Upper
Lounge, Monday, lunchtime
• WG-Thanks for the article Cheque's in the
post-IH.
• Fashion boutique opening on Level 7. All
the latest dust bin liners in stock now.
• New! Andy-proof vans, seat 4. Apply any
Royal Ordnance Factory Tanks Division.
• I know how to put one on myself, thank
you very much. Mike
• Cosmic's a nancy boy!
• It's difficult to do your piano marathon
when your helpers are making love 2 feet
away!
• The Caped Avenger wouldn't know what a
killer was if one murdered him. Mad Dan.
• This one's for John: Don't forget the Plants
rehearsal on Wednesday, love Kim.
• Looking for that hunk of a woman? Trying
to find that wimpy guy? Let Andy fix it (!) for
you. Free estimates given.
• Laddered stockings? Let us fix you up ID,
on Level 7. Luxurious surroundings.
• Guild's Carnival:
Transport home arranged for women.
Can you miss it?
• What's big and exciting? Guild's Carnival.
• Congratulations S&C. Lots of luv, M.
• Don't forget to take the braces off in bed!
• Wanted one braincell to replace one that
was stolen over a week ago-2ndLtT
• Fashionable 2nd year Physicist requires one
rich and single 3rd year Physicist with a full
set of EM lecture notes.
• Kissums kissums? Dvar yec min gart.
STOIC reply
Dear Judith
In last week's F E L I X (Fri Nov 20) a letter appeared
none too complementary about Dave Tyler. The manner
in which it was written was due soley to the author,
Charles Robin, and not to STOIC in general. For this he
apologises.
However, what follows is a statement endorsed by a
committee meeting of STOIC.
1. At Friday lunchtime the only Guilds publicity in the
entire Union Building was outside the Arch, and consisted
of four identical 'Carnival Today' posters stuck together.
We feel that this lack of publicity is more to blame for
any alledged low attendance at the Carnival than any
broadcast made by STOIC. This lack of publicity is also
totally contrary to a statement that M r Tyler made in a
recorded interview with STOIC in which he said: 'You
will not be able to move around College without knowing
that the Guilds Carnival is on.'
2. W e would have been very willing to accommodate
Guilds' requests regarding the time of our transmission
had they approached us in a civilised manner.
3. M r Tyler threatened that damage would come to
STOIC if our broadcast went ahead.
4. M r Tyler also threatened STOIC just before the start
of this term when due to a breakdown in our equipment
the Guilds' introductory video for Freshers was in danger
of not being completed. M r Tyler said that he would see
to it that STOIC received zero funding from the Union
if his video was not delivered.
5. We did in fact publicise very extensively the Guilds
Carnival on our Friday programme whilst it was actually
in progress, giving people information on its location and
content.
6. STOIC attempts to provide a service for the students
of IC. A lot of work goes into our programmes, both
'Newsbreak' and 'Into the Night', and we feel that the
programmes are appreciated by the members of I C U .
7. W e feel that students have a right to choose what
they want to do when they want to do it. Does M r Tyler
then propose to limit the options presented to students?
8. STOIC members were harrassed when they attempted
to gain access to the Union Building studio in preparation
for the 'Into the Night' broadcast. The lift was turned off,
and the stairs were blocked by tables and chairs, which
is surely a fire hazard?
Does M r Tyler have something against STOIC? He will
get very willing co-operation regarding publicity and
coverage of Guilds future events whenever possible, if
the request is termed reasonably, and not as a threat.
Charles Robin, STOIC Hon Sec.
Misquotation
Dear Judith,
Jesus Condones Adultery
In John's Gospel chapter 8, verse 10 Jesus says to a
woman taken in adultery, 'Neither do I condemn you, go
and sin.' This remarkable reversal of the usually held view
is achieved by the trick of incomplete quotation, the
complete verse reads: 'Neither do I condemn you, go and
sin no more.' The West London Chaplaincy's newsletter
got that kind of treatment from A l Roberts last week. From
an issue which contained five articles on the morality of
homosexuality he took the least sympathetic and by
tendentious misquotation made out the whole chaplaincy
to be predjudiced against homosexuals. Anyone who read
the newsletter will know there is a range of views on this
matter within the chaplaincy, and a vigorous debate going
on while people make up their mind, and in some cases
change their mind on the issue.
I happen not to agree with Dave Thomas that people
who are homosexual can and should be converted to
heterosexuality by the laying on of hands with prayer, but
I do defend his right to express his sincere convictions
as part of the debate without being subjected to
misrepresentation and villification.
The Archbishop of Canterbury (one of the contributors
to our newsletter) said 'the Church should listen carefully
to what homosexuals are saying about long term stable
relationships.' I hope that people who are homosexual will
also listen carefully to what the Church and the Chaplaincy
as a whole is saying, and not take offence where
understanding and acceptance are being offered.
Yours sincerely,
David Ashforth, College Chaplain.
Respect & 1c
Dear Judith,
I was saddened to read Al's article in last week's F E L I X
because he had to resort to publicly vilifying me, my
beliefs and the chaplaincy when a more constructive
approach would have been to have written a constructive
reply to Chi Rho disagreeing with my views. The basis
of our country is freedom of speech and slagging-off
people for their views will decrease this freedom. We are
all people to be loved and accepted as we are and then
if necessary for change to occur depending upon our
beliefs.
I hope that from this brief episode of my article and
Al's letter people will learn that the essence of society
is to respect others' views whether or not one can agree
with them and that with issues such as homosexuality even
more respect and love is needed and I am sorry that A l
did not see this aspect of my article. I unreservedly
apologise for any offence caused by my article but still
stand firm by the views expressed in it because I sincerely
believe in them. I hope people who disagree with these
views can still respect them just as I sincerely respect the
views of homosexuals who believe their homosexuality
to be correct but don't agree with me and want to live
their lives as homosexuals.
Yours sincerely,
Dave Thomas, Life Sci III.
Sorry!
Dear Judith,
I am sorry for 'pissing' on Broadsheet ( F E L I X 784).
I did not realise 'Bullsheet' (to use its less polite title) took
itself so seriously. I'll be honest. I love Broadsheet. With
editorials from Smedders and side-splitting humour from
Wharfdale who couldn't?
It has been suggested that next time I wish to moan I
should Gestetner complaint sheets. But to gain access to
a Gestetner I'd have to be a hack thus defeating my
purpose, Q E D write to F E L I X .
Yours apologetically and highly polyunsaturatedly
(great pun Dave),
Simon Cholerton, Physics II
FELIX Friday November 27th 1987 19

