L i b e l
• Safe sex has arrived at Norman's—
the Union Snack Bar with the sale of
Richard Branson's condoms 'Mates'.
The first packet were ostentatiously
purchased on Monday lunchtime by
yuppie F E L I X Reviews Editor Ashley
'rank and filofax' Niblock. One time
pop star Ash said "I will be reviewing
the full range in a future issue."
• Is the cold war between the F E L I X
and Union offices over?
Highlight of the R C S Smoking
concert was the special guest
appearance by Ian Howgate in the
F E L I X sketch, an episode of 'The
Baron'. Seen for the first time by the
large audience were Ian's infamous
sequinned dress and his magic wand.
Alan Rose and Chas Jackson also
featured in the sketch, although Chas
didn't do much acting.
• FELIX Clubs editor Kamala Sen
has started receiving dirty phone calls
and was recently offered £5 for an
item of a very personal nature by a
mystery caller.
Ms Sen was taking telephone bids
for a pair of boxer shorts donated to
'Children in Need' by Childrens'
B B C T V presenter Philip Schofield
when one listener got slightly
confused and was convinced that a
jockstrap was up for grabs, much to
the amusement of fellow telephonists
Judith Largeamounts and Pippa
Trout.
• Since being featured in 'Eye Spy',
Mike 'What's a condom' has, if the
small ads column is to be believed,
had quite an eye opener of a weekend.
Last week the female occupants of a
nearby flat offered to show him what
a condom was and this week there are
two ads from Mike on the subject.
Will Mike be seen stocking up for this
weekend in Norman's at lunchtime?
• 'Interesting' Prof Haines of the
Department of Physics missed an
opportunity to raise over £50 for rag
when he refused to allow the Guilds
Hit Squad to flan him on behalf of his
2nd year electro-magnetism class.
Another Physics lecturer, Dr David
Websdale, was much more sporting
and agreed to a hit paid for by his 1st
year Physics class.
T H E M O R O N A
"Tee hee hee", thought Dave Braincell to
himstlf as he sat with all his helpers in the
temple of the lumps of metal worshippers.
"Tee hee hee", thought five thousand
citizens to themselves as they searched for
copies of that week's edition of PHALLIX.
"What a complete lump of offal Dave
Braincell i s " .
It w a s one of those occasions when
tempers were wearing a bit thin. Dave
Braincell had carried out what he thought
was a brilliantly conceived plan. (Anyone
else who had the intellectual capacity of a
hedgehog's testicles might just have agreed
with him). Braincell and a group of lumps of
metal worshippers had followed PHALLIX editor Judith Largeamounts
around Cheapskate, sneakily collecting all the piles of PHALLIX as they
were distributed. Unfortunately, Largeamounts and the PHALLIX staff were
extremely cross when they found out what Braincell had done.
'**•* *** Braincell', said Largeamounts.
'**** *** Braincell', said Cwis Media.
<••*.« *** Brainceil', said Willhebe Goodforacolumninch.
'Crumbs', said Pippa Trout.
It had been one of those weeks when most of the PHALLIX staff had
lost a lot of sleep producing PHALLIX, and this probably made it difficult
for them to see the humour in a group of demented morons hiding every
copy and preventing all the citizens from reading it.
Braincell was very sensitive about his public image. He had been very
upset by a story in PHALLIX. The story had said that Braincell and his
followers had not organised enough publicity for their Rug party. Braincell
knew that this was a load of rubbish: there were two posters prominently
displayed behind Braincell's altar in the lumps of metal worshippers temple.
Obviously anyone w h o came in to the temple and could put up with
Braincell drivelling on about square bashing would know all about the Rug
party. Braincell was quite sure that PHALLIX was out to get him: every
time he made a complete arsehole of himself, PHALLIX would print the
same old drivel about what a complete arsehole he was.
After a few hours the PHALLIX staff had calmed down enough to start
work on the next week's issue of PHALLIX. Thinking that Braincell was
feeling a little hard done by, they decided to print a special message just
for him:
T H E B A R O N ' S
P R I N T I N G S E R V I C E S
From the P H A L L I X sweatshop, a service especially tailored to suit your
needs. Yes, if your name is Dave Braincell then read on. You have an
issue of Lumsofmetalsheet to get printed? Then we can certainly help! Yes,
with the 'Baron's printing service' your artwork will be prepared for the
presses as soon as it is delivered. After printing, folding and collating we
can cut out the middle man and throw the whole lot straight into the bin!
Spare everyone the labour of stealing all the copies, and bypass the reader
completely!
We think you'll agree, it's unbeatable value.
Issued on behalf of the 'Why should we bother' Commission.
The PHALLIX staff contented themselves with the thought that if
Braincell ever tried the trick again he would be spending a few weeks
in the slammer.
Why does Braincell wear a condom on his head?
Who the hell voted for him anyway?
Whose genitals will be nailed to his forehead if he picks up more than
one copy of PHALLIX next week?
You shouldn't need to wait to find out in the next episode of 'the Baron
of Cheapskate'.
• Is 2nd Lt Dave Tyler taking up a
new hobby truly reflective of his
mature outlook on life?
Spotted in the Guilds' office this
week were the essential pieces of
equipment necessary for his latest
passion—a Subbuteo set and Dave's
favourite team. Also spotted in the
vicinity of the Guilds' store were two
new cars for the Motor Club's
Scalextric Champio/iship (!). Isn't it
amazing what a university education
can do to your mental age?
• Ex RCSU hack Dai Head intended
to take part in the R C S Motor Club's
Godiva Run last weekend but was
sponsored £60 to keep his clothes on.
r
/ : / / : / /
N
College Refectories Manager Rob
Northey has purchased a washing
machine to clean the polystyrene
burger containers in the Q T Snack
Bar, it was announced on Monday.
The move comes as part of a College-
wide drive to increase conservation
awareness amongst staff and students.
Rob Northey told F E L I X that the
machine will enable the containers to
be recycled, leading to a reduction in
the ozone layer damage caused by
volatile fluorocarbons i n n e w
containers. He also pointed out that
the machine would save the
refectories £100 per annum. 'It's a
jolly good idea' commented D r
Krippen of Physics 'this move will
reduce the ozone depletion rate by
10"1 0
molecules per second'.
FELIX Friday November 27th 1987 5

