est. 1949
E B l i x
SP
Friday 29th November, 1996
issue 1071
http://www.su. ic.ac.uk/Felix
Student Newspaper of Imperial College
might affect you. and
Higner Education in gen-
eral with our analysis on
page seven.
5ihea€?aie / 3.0a -of camK«as
KENT YIP
Extra funding for Higher and Further
Education was announced by the
Chancellor in his Budget speech this
Tuesday. It was greeted with relief
by the Association of University
Teachers.
With allowance for inflation, the
level of funding for each student has
fallen by 0.5% in real terms. This is
significantly less than the 3% cut
expected by the AUT. Amidst the
current climate of expenditure cuts,
the Chancellor's address over pres-
sure in funding faced by universities
was seen as a "welcome novelty".
Speaking to Felix, Dr Rodney
Eastwood, Director of Planning, said
that the additional fund did not
restore the cuts imposed in the last
Budget for the current year and for
1997-98. The Higher Education
Funding Council for England will
announce their grant to Imperial
College for the 97-98 session next
March. It is too early to say what
impact this will have on College
before then. However, Dr Eastwood
was keen to point out that the
HEFCE had been asked by the
Secretary of State for Education to be
more selective in their allocation of
funds for research, and that the
College should do comparatively
well from this. The College is also
expected to place strong bids for the
£20 million earmarked for research
equipment.
Following the one day strike two
weeks ago, boycotts in teaching
quality assessment are going ahead.
This is the process whereby individ-
ual university departments are
assessed and weighted by funding
councils on certain criteria and this
involves the universities having to
deal with large amounts of extra
paperwork
Letters have been written by the
AUT to all university vice-chancel-
lors warning of huge scale conse-
quences should the boycott go ahead.
The possibility of further action will
be considered in an AUT meeting
this Friday. Any reversal in their
decision to boycott will depend on
the outcome of the meeting of the
vice-chancellors next Thursday.
Members of the AUT are angered
by the continued refusal of the
Government to review their pay.
Their percentage increase currently
stands at 1.5%, far below that desig-
nated for the vice-chancellors. Their
refusal to negotiate with the AUT
does not help to resolve this conflict.
With the extra funding from the
Government, the AUT argues that
there is no reason for the vice-chan-
cellors to deny them of their just
demands.
In response to the Budget speech,
David Triesman, general secretary of
the AUT, issued the following state-
ment. "After a period of funding star-
vation even a small reprieve can
seem like nutrition. But the amounts
needed are not really addressed. In
essence, we are asked to hold our
breadth and wait for Sir Ron
Dealing. That is a tough prescription,
even if it could have been worse."
Describing the move as "a change in
the step of decline", he went on to
say "It is imperative that the vice-
chancellors seize this moment and
opportunity to deal with staff hon-
ourably."
- r Weekend: the profession
winjools holland tickets
on the back page.
Budget '96: nice,
but...not enough
P H O T O : A L D U S
The Imperial College members of the successful University of London
Union Karate Team sporting the gold medals they recently gained at the
United Kingdom Championships.
The team fought its way through the regional stages of the Karate
Union of Great Britain Championships before progressing to the finals at
Chesterfield. At the finals competition, the team consisting of Godwin
Unkere and Edwin DoSantos (the IC contingent, pictured above with
their medals), Tony Hughes (formerly of IC), Rami (University College
Hospital) and Lewis, beat teams from Manchester, Aberystwyth and
Liverpool on their way to winning the title.
In the individual events, Ed DoSantos picked up a bronze, whereas
Godwin Unkere just missed out on the medals.
The ULU team have also been European Karate Champions for the
passed two years.
full report in Felix Sport, page 15

