F E L I X FRIDAY 2 9 T H N O V E M B E R LETTERS & EDITORIAL 13
LETTERS TO FELIX
answered by David Roberts
^ E E L I X
Student Newspaper of Imperial College
Editor Alex Feakes / Advertising Manager Mark Baker
A time for action
Dear Felix,
I wish to make a point about
industrial action in response to your
editorial entitled Strike One. Your
review reported that the Government
has stated that there are no votes in
HE. This cynical attitude reveals not
only the Government's true attitude
to fairness in an improving economy
but also exposes an Achilles heel.
The Government is clearly dismis-
sive of strikes and other industrial
actions. However if the joint Trades
Unions were to call upon those they
represent to vote against a govern-
ment which fails to keep incomes in
line with inflation then it might learn
within a few months that its compla-
cency was misjudged. If this were to
happen then a conservative (forgive
the pun) estimate would place lost
government support at 100,000 votes
in city constituencies. The realisation
that many MPs supporting the
Government would thus suffer a
100% cut in their own recently self
inflated incomes should focus minds
rapidly. Democratic power can justi-
fiably encourage the Government to
provide the funds necessary to make
a fair settlement possible.
Although the current offer of 1.5%
is an effective pay cut of at least
1.5% because of rising inflation, any
industrial action cedes the moral high
ground to the Government and
injures innocent parties in the
process. Sensible action is effective
action.
Name and adress withheld
This is indeed true, and in an ide-
alised world the unions would
indeed have the power to bring
down the Government. However,
in this idealised world the same
forces would have kept the present
Government well away from
power for the last seventeen years.
The same period has also shown
the fatal flaw in this dream - the
electorate has proved all to happy
to sacrifice their principles and
their desire for long term securit-
ry, in return for a quick buck - So
what a suprise it was to see unjus-
tified tax cuts on Tuesday.
Until then, shows of solidarity
such as last weeks strike are all we
have to try to pressurise this
"Government" into doing what
we, I imagine, all believe to be
right, namely giving more money
to Higher Education.
If anyone has a better method,
please step forward.
Dear Felix
As always I enjoyed reading the
last issue (1070) of Felix and,
because of my role in College, I was
particularly interested in the front
page article about the industrial
action of 19 November 1996.
However, my confidence in its accu-
racy was somewhat undermined by
the fact that you thought you were
speaking to Caroline Fox when, in
fact, I believe you spoke to me.
Of course, you may have spoken
to Caroline too, in which case I apol-
ogise for MY error. Nevertheless, in
the interests of accuracy and to spare
the blushes of others who may not
wish to be associated with my com-
ments, I thought you would like to
know that I have been Director of
Personnel at the College since last
January. (Oh, I did not really say
what you reported either. Perhaps it
wasn't me after all!)
Yours - and still looking forward
to the next issue
Marion
A matter of honour
Dear Simon Baker
On a day when the club goes into
battle for the honour of the College, I
hope you can reach across and accept
other peoples point of view. The
hockey club has a long standing tra-
dition of giving all of its members
bar names. It is these names that you
refer too in your latest column. The
club is founded on strong social ties
and all that, of which the bar names
do actually play an important part,
yes they have a shallow surface silly
side, but for the most part, they add a
sense of pride and aid team spirit. I
hope you try to appreciate this for
what it is and not just automatically
look to ridicule it further. I am sure
you can resist the temptation.
Do the right thing
Dear Felix,
Any readers who were interested
in last week's article on the human
rights organisation Amnesty
International may like to know about
a new group which has been meeting
in colege this year. The Amnesty
International group meets in
Southside upper lounge on
Thursdays at 12 o'clock. At the
moment the group is concentrating
on sending letters or faxes regarding
recent violations of human rights, but
the range of activities may increase if
we can find more members - this will
also allow us to affiliate to the union.
Sapna Trivedi
A VIRTUOUS BUDGET?
So that's that then. A penny off
income tax and widening of the per-
sonal allowance for all of us, a few
pence off the price of spirits and
thr'pence on beer for the drinkers.
The Budget was a bit of an anticli-
max given all the build up. Not much
there for each of us, personally, yet
we would seem to be better off. Are
we all satisfied?
It is interesting that is there an
expectation among the public that
taxes and excise duties will go down
at budgets, whilst the economists
expect more rational measures to
'balance the books'. Why should the
public expect movements in the tax
rates always to be downward?
The general public and the
Government have both contributed
to the attitude of 'having one's cake
and eating it'. The public wants a
good level of services, but doesn't
want to have to pay for it, and the
Government responds to this by
promising that this is possible. This
gives us the annual round of Budget
fudging, muddling and mis-informa-
tion, where the priorities get skewed.
It is unfortunate that this bargaining
between various streams of expendi-
having no votes attached. Thus when
the cuts were metered out this time
round, the various interest groups
lobbying for more money for HE
could claim only the 'victory' of
obtaining a "breathing space" by
having the cut limited to 0.5%. To
sweeten the cut, there is to be an
extra £20 million spent on science,
which, as most researchers at
Imperial will tell you, will not go
very far among the 100 universities
in Britain. I would suggest that the
campaigning by these interest groups
will go on, but until the issue of
Higher Education becomes more
urgent, particularly in the eyes of the
public who mostly do not appreciate
it's 'service' value, it will continue to
be ignored.
As an addendum, the performance
by the Chancellor, Kenneth Clarke,
on the short "Budget Broadcast" just
before Tuesday's Newsnight, was
quite intriguing. Throughout the talk,
the Chancellor extolled the virtue of
his Budget, telling us how he was
planning for the future as well as giv-
ing everyone a little something.
However, he didn't mention the
Conservative Party once, not even
with reference to the forthcoming
ture becomes viciously political.
Which is where Higher Education
comes in.
We have given a lot of space in
Felix this week to coverage of the
Budget, and how it affects Higher
Education. This is because it is an
important issue for this College. HE
is, there can be no doubt, a political
football; no party except the Liberal
Democrats are prepared to declare
HE an important policy area. It is
largely ignored, assigned the value of
election battle with Labour. Hmmm.
C A R E E R S FAIR
Oops! Sorry for not mentioning the
Careers fair in the last issue. For
those of you who were not there to
experience the crowds, the ICU
Careers Fair 1996 was an unabashed
success. There were over fifty com-
panies exhibiting to over 2000 stu-
dents, and it was generally agreed to
be the best and biggest ever.
Congratulations to Mark and
Michelle for organising the event.
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
Copyright Felixl996. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
N E W S : M A R I A ; F E A T U R E S : D A V I D A N D T H E N E W S T E A M , P U Z Z L E S : D U N C A N ;
I L L U S T R A T I O N S : S T A V R O S ; G R A P H I C S A N D L A Y O U T : D A V I D A N D M A R K R;
P H O T O G R A P H Y : A L D U S , L I L Y , L I N G A N D R O B I N ; S P O R T : D A V I D ; C O L L A T I N G
L A S T W E E K : D A V I D , E M M A A N D H E R S T R A N G E F R I E N D ;
S E C R E T A R Y : S A R A H
Letters may be edited for length. The guest editor's opinions
are not necessarily those
of the editor.
Deadline for letters in Felix 1072 is Monday 2nd December. Please
bring some form of identification. Letters may be e-mailed to our
address: felix@ic.ac.uk

