10 FEATURE F E L I X FRIDAY 2 9 T H N O V E M B E R
East meets West: the fu
East meets West: the fusion, was the first cultural
show the Indian Society has organised at IC. The
Indian New Year and the Diwali festival celebra-
tions occur in November and it is for this reason a
few of the London College organise 'Diwali
Shows' - cultural explorations of India. IC has
never had this annual tradition and so kicking off
an initial event was an even harder task.
The evening itself saw various fashion shows,
dances (from East and West), comedy speeches
and singing acts. After months of hard work and
dedication, the show was performed on Tuesday
19th November to a 700 strong audience in the
Great Hall.
The show was a joint production with Charing
Cross and Westminster Medical School. The cast
of performers comprised of individuals from that
college as well as Imperial. Even though the event
had no tradition or reputation from previous years
(unlike other 'Diwali shows'), the event was a
complete sell out at quite an early stage. Much
effort was put into the event to bill it as one of the
best, if not the best. The reaction, remarks and
feedback from all those involved and all those who
watched was exactly what the organiser had hoped
for...that yes, it was the best cultural show they
had ever seen. Attendance from other colleges was
high and feedback from them was similar and
encouraging.
The event had a number of highlights that will
be remembered by all. The first half saw a superb
comedy sketch called 'The P-Files" (the Patel
Files). It was about how a cult group of Patels try-
ing to take over the remaining Caucasian corner-
shops. The cult group was led by a 'Don' Patel -
(acted superbly by an Aku Patel), and directly
Below: Traditional dancing celebrating Diwali.
complemented by Vernu. The audiences reaction
to the two was excellent.
The second half of the show was the stranger
half. It saw various fashion shows, one involving
Taz (the Chippendale) getting his pecs out - this
went down very well - and another show involving
professional models from an agency and exclusive
designer clothes. In both the student models' fash-
ion show and the professional models' one there
were two guys from IC. Paraag 'The Stud' Dare
and the aforementioned Aku Patel, did well in the
student ran show, but also oozed class in the com-
pany of professional models (even showing a few
up)! Paraag, in particular was stunning and
rumours are floating around about a possible con-
tract with an agency.
The second half also saw another comedy
sketch, 'The Fresh Prince of Bombay", which was
also very popular with the audience. Will was
played by Amjad and an excellent version of
Carlton was played by Gaurav Misra. The sketch
also featured a brilliantly choreographed dance -
Aseema - to the song "Made in India", the dance
featured a guest appearance by Paraag (who by this
point, along with Aku and Gaurav, was one of the
leading stars of the show). This half ended with an
excellent synchronised dance to Rhythm Nation.
The two singers, Azzi (as George Michael) and Jo
(as Michael Jackson) were also amazing.
After the show, everyone hit the Senior
Common Room for the after show party, where
praise was metered out to the whole cast of the per-
formance. This event bodes well for future years,
and congratulations must go to Chetan and Akshay
for organising the IC side of the event.
Top: Exclusive designer clothes modeled in the fash-
ion show.
Left: Aku and Nernu in the comedy sketch 'The
Patels'.
WORDS: GAURAV
PHOTOS: LILY

