IREVIEWSI
A High
Sense of
Drama
Long Day's Journey Into Night by Eugene
O'Neill, directed by Jon Gulliver and
performed by Imperial College Dramatic
Society in the Union Concert Hall,
Wednesday March 16 to Saturday March
19.
Eugene O ' N e i l l , the only A m e r i c a n
playwright ever to receive the Nobel Prize for
Literature, is the author of such masterpieces
as Electra, Desire Under The Elms and The
Iceman Cometh. Imbued with the tragic sense
of life, he aimed for a contemporary drama
that had its roots in the most powerful of
ancient Greek tragedy—a drama that could
rise to the emotional heights of Shakespeare.
Imperial College Dramatic Society are
presenting O'Neill's Long Day's Journey Into
Night, what made director Jon Gulliver choose
the play? He has seen it four times and was
very moved by it, and chose it because it was
'intense, interesting, dramatic and demanding'.
He also felt it was 'about time we had
something serious in College'. It is of course
not normally wise for an amateur dramatic
g^oup to select a difficult and demanding work
to stage. But Mr Gulliver is evidently a no-
nonsense type of man and when it comes to
art (he has also written some good poems for
the latest Phoenix), he goes straight to the
hard things. I'll say straight away that he has
managed to catch the bullet-between his teeth
because his production is moving and pretty
captivating. It is so rare for a non-professional
group to achieve this (and it is hard to
remember a previous College production
which has been as moving and convincing)
that it is a considerable tribute to Mr Gulliver's
direction and his fine cast.
A brief outline of O'Neill's life is called for
because Long Day's Journey Into Night is
unashamedly autobiographical. The son of an
actor, his early childhood was spent in the
insecurity of hote[ rooms in trains and
Family harmony? Julie Kerr and Paul Nixon as mother and son with David Simmons as
elder brother in background. Linda Taylor as Cathleen performs house hold duties.
backstage. It was a difficult, rough-and-tumble
life that resulted in his mother's drug addiction.
He was also, as a child, steeped in the peasant
Irish Catholicism of his father and the more
genteel, mystical piety of his mother, two
influences, often in dramatic confict, which
account for the high sense of drama and the
struggle with God and religion that distinguish
O'Neill's plays. After leaving Princeton
University after one year, he went to sea and
lived a derelict's existence, submerged himself
in alcohol and nearly attempted suicide. It was
when he was confined to a sanatarium because
of tuberculosis that he began to write plays.
Long Day's Journey Into Night is an
agonizingly autobiographical play, and one of
O'Neill's greatest. It was dedicated to hiswifeand
the dedication contains some pretty strong
words. 'I give you the original script of this play
of old sorrow, written in tears and blood...I
mean it as a tribute to your love and
tenderness which gave me the faith in love that
enabled me to face my dead at last and write
this play — write it with deep pity and
understanding and forgiveness for all the four
haunted Tyrones.'
The play is straightforward in style but
shattering in its depiction of the agonized
relations between father, mother and two
sons. Spanning one day in the life of a family,
the play strips away layer after layer from each
of the four central figures revealing the mother
as a defeated drug addict, the father as a man
frustrated in his career and failed as a husband
and father, the older son as a bitter alcoholic,
and the younger son (O'Neill) as a tubercular,
disillusioned youth with only the slenderest
chance for physical and spiritual survival. The
mother and father loved but tormented each
other, the elder brother loved but corruped
him (O'Neill), with O'Neill himself, caught and
torn between love for, and rage at, all three.
The play depicts in one day the breaking up of
a family, and in prose that is pretty strong and
moving.
In his dedication, O'Neill talks about 'facing
my dead'. O'Neill's mother became addicted to
morphine after the birth of her son—a 'cheap'
doctor administered the drug to her because
of her great pain in delivering him. His mother
never lost her addiction and O'Neill felt terribly
guilty about this. His later consumption
perpetuated her addiction and to O'Neill, his
affliction became a kind of 'gallows', a way of
redeeming his mother. O'Neill blames himself
for his life and the misery it created for his
>ageK> March 11,19831
parents. There are even references in the
play to a certain Eugene, a first offspring who
died in early childhood, and the rather
unwanted Edmund who was the substitute
(Edmund in the play is the author). The play,
as shown in the dedication, is really an apology
to his parents, where he expiates his huge
weight of grief.
The play consists of five characters. The
father, James Tyrone, is played by Chris
Barton. Mr Barton gives a very convincing
performance of a drunken, volatile and tight-
fisted man. As the play wears on, Mr Barton
gives his all, putting across a clever, forceful
and passionate act. Mr Tyrone's wife, Mary, is
played by Julia Kerr. The character is lonely
has never known a true home and has hands
which are never still, fidgety and knotted by
rheumatism. Ms Kerr gives a captivating
performance and her sensitivity about her
hands' appearance and her humiliation by her
inability to control the nervousness which
draws attention to them is well put across. A
'ghost haunting the past', the drug in her body
causes her to vacilliate between naive
daydreaming and bouts of anxiety. James
(Jamie) Tyrone, the elder brother, is played by
David Simmons. He is drunken and degener-
ate. Placed in the theatre by his father, he is
accused of spending his father's money on
'whiskey and whores' and of corrupting his
brother. Mr Simmons gives a very good
performance. Talented and confident, his
acting is almost professional in its standard.
Paul Nixon plays Edmund Tyrone. Mr Nixon
gives a most moving act and is especially good
at delivering the odd pieces of poetry in the
play. Again, total involvement in his part. And
last but not least, the good looking Linda
Taylor portrays well the tender-hearted and
jovial maid, Cathleen.
The production is extremely moving and
forceful despite the odd criticism. There is, in
general, a rather too even intensity of dialogue;
the difference between lines of casual
conversation and parts where individuals lose
their temper could do with amplification.
There is also a lack of bodily gesture; there are
too many long 'still lifes'. However, stage
designs by Matthew Tonks are good.
Dramsoc's production, despite faults, is one
of the best in recent years. It shouldn't be
missed—your time will not be wasted, I
guarantee. Unreservedly recommended for
students and staff.
Nick Bedding
H H H H H H H H H 1 FELIX

