Forceful,
Moving,
and Major
Theatre
Miss Julie by Strindberg, directed by
Clare Davidson, Duke of Yorks Theatre.
After a sell-out run at the Lyric Studio,
Hammersmith, Strindberg's Miss Julie has
transferred to the West End. This short ninety
minute drama is exciting, intense and powerful
and Clare Davidson's production is nothing
short of superb. Cheryl Campbell, one of the
country's top actresses, plays the heroine, the
young mistress of an estate who seduces one
of her servants. Her portrayal is extremely
forceful and moving and a major theatre award
must surely be destined for this production
and her performance in it.
August Strindberg (1849-1912) is arguably
the most outstanding playwright in Swedish
literature. Although he produced a vast
volume of work in his life, ranging from short
stories, poems and autobiographical novels to
Utopian essays and treatises on chemistry and
semantics, his reputation rests on his plays.
Miss Julie is perhaps his most famous.
Strindberg had a pretty troubled life, and his
works reflect the conflict between his unstable
temperament and the world around him,
whether in his unhappy childhood, in his three
tempestuous marriages, or in his constant
struggle for recognition, and sometimes for
survival. His pessimism and recurring sense of
persecution were exacerbated by hostile
critical reception of his plays and the charges
of blasphemy which were brought against him.
In times of deep despair he sought solace in
alchemy and the occult. Nevertheless, his
character rarely allowed gloom to get the
upper hand. Ironically Strindberg wrote 'I find
the joy of life in its violent and cruel struggle.'
Overtly, Miss Julie is a struggle between the
sexes and between aristocracy and serfdom. A
battle was continually raging in Strindberg—
that of the aristocratic blood inherited from his
father warring against 'the blood of the slave'
that came from his adored mother. The
heroine, Miss Julie, is a direct ancestor of Lady
Chatterley—a woman of independence and
strong will, but Strindberg's character is
considerably more complex than this. Her
lover Jean (played admirably by Stephen Rea,
who has just played the lead role in Ireland's
first feature film Angel) is also a complex
personality, but the two form a powerful
character study of opposing personal traits
and social values.
This extraordinarily rich play is set on a
Midsummer's eve, in a Count's kitchen. A
party for the whole household is going on and
Miss Julie's behaviour is arousing the attention
of the guests. She seems to prefer mixing with
the servants. Cheryl Campbell with a rather
masculine tone of voice and an overflow of
bushy blonde hair lends a pretty erotic
performance, and soon into the play a
seduction takes place. The remainder of the
drama is filled with anguish as the lovers try to
extricate themselves from their predicament.
The act brutally shatters long-held ideals and
impressions, and the physical and moral
anguish of Miss Julie and Jean is very intense
and very moving. With human relationships,
Strindberg's breadth of vision is considerable.
Strindberg's Miss Julie is of major
importance in modern drama. Together with
IREVIEWSH
the dramatist's own vision. Naturalistic drama
placed the emphasis on the daily life of ordinary
people in their normal domestic circumstances
with a credible sequence of events taking the
place of emotional intrigue (which was found in
run-of-the-mill French drama, popular at the
time). It was heavily influenced by the example
Emile Zola's dramatisation of his own novel
Theres Raquim and some of Ibsen's earlier
plays, these works formed the new
Naturalism and the beginnings of modern
drama. Naturalism demanded that the drama
should be, in Zola's words 'a slice of life
viewed through a temperament', that is, that
reality should not merely be photographically
represented, but organised and interpreted by
of novelists such as George Eliot and Balzac.
In Britain the naturalist drama was cham-
pioned by George Bernard Shaw and others.
In his preface to the play Strindberg explained
that he had tried to avoid 'symmetric,
mathematically constructed dialogue' allowing
instead the characters minds 'to work
irregularly, as people do in real life...split and
vacilliating'. He was also seeking to concen-
trate into ninety minutes what playwrights
habitually spread into four or five acts, thereby
avoiding an interval, which he thought 'was the
curse of the modern theatre'.
A production it would be a great pity to
miss.
Nick Bedding
FELIXI
Hellcat
Feminism
Trafford Tanzi by Claire Luckham
(Hellcat Feminist), directed by Chris Bond
and Ted Clayton, Mermaid Theatre.
This entertainment is presented as a
wrestling programme entitled 'Battle of the
Sexes—a fight to the finish' featuring the
Venus Flytrap Trafford Tanzi (played by Julia
North) versus the Ever Popular Dean Rebel
(Neil Dickson) and a full supporting bill
including The Trafford Tanzi Story. The play
begins with the latter tale. Tanzi's life is traced
from childhood to feminism in a series of
wrestling bouts against a variety of sexists: her
mother, father, schoolgirl Platinum Sue and
unfaithful chauvinist husband Dean Rebel. The
production is designed to make the play as
close to a wrestling contest as possible. The
stage consists only of a wrestling ring
surrounded on all sides by seats, Mel at the
Organ, and a master of ceremonies who
introduces the evening's events. The other
important contribution to realism is the bar
which is set up at the rear of the auditorium.
Beer may be consumed throughout the play.
This is not a play at which one sits quietly in
one's seat wearing evening dress and peering
through opera glasses. Rather it is participa-
tion theatre in which drunkenness and general
rowdyism can make positive contributions to
the atmosphere. The high standard of the
wrestling further encourages the crowd to take
sides with either of the performers and has
been achieved thanks to fight direction by the
British Middle Weight Champion—Brian
Maxine.
There are two reasons that a play about
feminism could fail—either the humour is
sacrificed for the feminist message resulting in
a boring play or the feminism is watered down
in favour of entertainment value which gives a
fainthearted work. Trafford Tanzi achieves the
happy medium combining the anti-sexist view
with a really good night out.
Don't miss it! Student standbys usually
available.
Nick Hill
I March 11,19831 IPagell

