ICLUBS & SOCIETIESI
C&G
Have you heard the one about the Guilds
Elections? You haven't? Then where have you
been for the past few weeks?! Believe it or not,
the Guilds Election UGM is next Tuesday
March 15. Not only that, but there are people
keenly standing for nearly all of the union
posts!
But it is impossible for us to know what
people you want in the Union next year unless
you turn up on Tuesday and vote. The meeting
is in Mech Eng 220 at 1:00pm and will include
at least four elections. It's your union—and it's
supposed to run democratically—so turn up
and let us know what you think.
This evening is the Guilds Prizes and
Elections Barnight with beer prizes being given
away for the winners of the Soccer Sixes,
Rugby Sevens and Field Cup. Yards will be
drunk by all prospective Guilds Exec
candidates.
Also on Friday evening is the final Guilds
Motor Club Rally—this is your last chance to
procure those precious rally points folks.
Over the weekend the Guilds Pedal Car
Clgb is practising in the South-East of England
(somewhere )
And on Sunday, Guilds Motor Club have
their Production Car Trail in Kent (wonder if
they'll meet the Pedal Car Club...?)
Next Thursday March 17 there are two
Guilds events. Firstly there is an inter-
departmental pedal car race in Prince's
Gardens during dinner time. Teams must be of
six people (each doing one lap of the gardens).
Pedal cars are provided, so all you need to do
is tell us and turn up on the day.
Secondly, the inter-CCUnions Swimming
Gala is being held at 6:00pm at the swimming
pool, if you want to enter that then please let
us know as soon as possible.
Meanwhile, the Guilds Pedal Car Club will
be looking for sponsorship (for their cycle
around the coast of Britain) all next week.
Their specially made Human Powered Vehicle
(the 'Windcheetah') will be on display in the
JCR every dinnertime.
See you at the UGM.
Cheers.-
Rob
IC CND
'Effective planning on a national or regional
scale for nuclear war is impossible". That is the
conclusion of a recently published report from
the British Medical Association. Mr Heseltine
of course denies this, but claims that even if it
were true then it justifies a nuclear deterrent
policy. And of course we should prepare for
the worst. After all, Switzerland and Sweden
guard against such dangers. But neither of
these counties have nuclear weapons, which
means their defences are truly defensive. The
fact is that civil defence for Britain, while we
still have nuclear weapons, only makes war
more likely, because (1) it cons people into
thinking nuclear war is somehow survivable
and therefore fightable, and (2) it indicates to
the Russians that we are preparing for a fight.
If you agree that civil defence is a dangerous
waste of money, then join us on Wednesday
March 23 at 5:00pm outside Mech Eng
concourse. We are travelling to Wandsworth
where the Town Hall is to be surrounded
(peacefully) while the Council is meeting
inside, as a demonstration of support for the
peace camp actions and of opposition to civil
defence.
Next week IC C N D Group will be
canvassing Halls of Residence, to find out
people's opinions on nuclear weapons and
disarmament in general, and of Cruise &
Trident in particular. Come to the Union
Upper Lounge between 6:00 and 7:00pm on
Monday March 14 (or contact me by Wed) if
you want to help.
The bookstall has proved so popular that we
now have it every day except Thursday at
lutuhtime in the JCR.
Robert Ke/sey
Civ Eng 3
IC Radio
Right, having edited the judo report (they're a
really ace team—but their hold (joke!) of
English grammar leaves something to be
desired. Hopefully by the next article, we will
have taught Martin a new phrase other than
'put up a good fight'), I'd better say something
mega' about your great local radio station, but
seeing I am lacking in inspriation (I put it all
into the judo report) I'll pass on some useful
infromation(?):
1. Election papers are now up, so any full
member of ICR can stand for a post (well, at
least that counts me out, as I'm far too laid
back (man) to 'stand' for a post!) by putting
their name up on the ballot papers in the office,
and making sure they're fully seconded.
2. We would like to know who left studio 1
full of 'laughing gas' before the sabbatical
election special, last Friday night?
3. Hopefully, by the end of term we will have
broadcast both the Pinter radio plays, that we
have recorded—If you have any radio plays,
you would like to hear on ICR, or even
perform yourself then come down the office
any luncthime and we'll see what we can do for
you!
The partial exile (only when my persecution
complex gets the better of me)
CR0MW£LLiaft
Entrance on
3 Cromwell Road SW7
Teh 584 7258
Opposite N a t u r a l History M u s e u m , 2 mins f r o m South Kensington Tube)
NEW
COCKTAIL A N D WINE BAR
Opening:
Monday - Friday 6.00-11.00
Saturday - 9.00 - 11.00
INTRODUCING
HAPPY HOURS
6.00 - 9.00 pm
Cocktails at £1.20 & Drinks 60p
NEW YEAR OFFER:
S T U D E N T S NIGHT M O N D A Y
C O C K T A I L S £1.20 A L L NIGHT
6:00 — 11:00pm
ELECTION
s M i e s
\ . \ v \ i / / .
ERIDAX
\ \ \ \ \ i I / / / /
^ \\y\\\\ir////^
Page121 I March 11,19831
I FELIX

