A CUSHY LIFE?
Don Adlington, the College Counsellor, talks about the things that get students down
and how to get help
There is still a tendency for people outside the
world of higher education—that is most
people—to assume that a university student's
life is something of an easy option, a relatively
carefree and publicly funded hiatus before the
serious business of 'working' for one's living. I
doubt if it was ever so, in recent times at any
rate, even for the very rich who were not
required to jump through academic hoops to
justify the receipt of the next grant cheque. It is
certainly not so now.
I often talk to students who are quite
unaware that they are almost certainly
involved in the most difficult, most demanding,
most stressful undertaking of their lives.
University study is inescapably rigorous, and
while one sometimes meets undergraduates
who have taken A Levels in their stride, it is
unusual to meet one who would make such a
claim about degree work.
The sustained demand for clear thinking and
effective learning inseparable from university
level work does not come easily to the very
great majority of the student population. The
sort of intellectual activity central to the study
process is peculiarly susceptible to serious
disruption if the student runs into emotional
difficulties, whatever their source. You could
dig holes in the road, serve in a shop or drive a
bus relatively efficiently if you were upset, but
you can't, usually, study efficiently.
It is for this reason, and no other, that
colleges have seen fit to employ counsellors.
Students don't have more or worse personal
problems than their peer-group outside—quite
the contrary—but their impact on the
student's central activity is far sharper. A.
period of anxiety or distress lasting for just a
few weeks might well affect a whole year's
work, and it seems to me quite important
therefore that when things do go wrong, a
student should do something about it fairly
quickly. Talking to friends, relatives or tutors
may well be all that is needed, and indeed most
difficulties are resolved more or less informally
in that way. A counsellor may have something
to contribute however where these other
sources of help are either not available, or not
sufficient.
Some students come to me with fairly
straight-forward 'welfare' type queries, and if I
can't help directly myself, I pass them on to
other people who can. It is important that
students should feel that all the College's
support services are receptive and easily
accessible, and that they can make contact
with whichever agency seems most acceptable
and most appropriate. For example, my work
overlaps to some extent with that of the
doctors. One student feeling fed-up and
worried may think it the most obvious thing in
the world to talk to a doctor about it. Another
one with exactly the same anxieties may not
perceive things in a medical context at all, and
may call on me. Sjpnilarly a student with a
convoluted financial or domestic problem may
equally appropriately come to me or go to the
Student Services Office.
In reality most students I see—and certainly
the ones I see over a period of time—are
coping with a degree of anxiety or distress
which may well originate outside the university
altogether. Most of them experience a certain
adverse effect on their academic progress, and
a major part of my work centres on minimising
the damage. Naturally some students become
unhappy as a result of work going badly, and
where that seems to be the case it seems
sensible to explore the underlying reasons for
his indifferent performance. This kind of
exploration may involve an honest appraisal of
motivation—that is recognising that some
student find the work impossibly forbidding for
no more sinister reason than that they do not
really want to do it. They may have opted into
the wrong course, or the wrong college. They
may indeed—in a small minority of cases—
have ended up in university despite a profound
distaste for studying. How the individual
student might handle this kind of situation
varies enormously, and depends oa a whole
variety of factors. For example if, despite his
subjective view of his performance, a student
can, with encouragement, keep his head just
above the academic water-line, he may well
think it sensible to accept the situation as it
stands. One would take a different view, say,
of an undergraduate expressing profound
doubts as to his choice or course or college if
he presented in the autumn term of his first
year, as opposed to the spring term of his
second. Similarly there can be no blanket
assumption that the student who acknowledges
a more radical distaste for study should
necessarily abandon the notion of graduating.
Depending on his temperament, with
sympathetic support from tutors, and having
put his difficulties into some sort of
perspective, he might well decide to continue,
in the perfectly acceptable conviction that
while a high class degree is beyond him, a pass
or a third class degree may not be.
Apart from these motivation problems,
there are of course some other kinds of
difficulty which interfere, in a more or less
serious way with students ability to work
effectively. Very few people would question
that a bereavement, the death of a close
relative, and its subsequent distress would
normally disturb work for a while. From my
point of view a broken love relationship would
haw precisely the same consequence, since
they are both grief experiences. It is the
natural, ie non-pathological, consequence of
such events that an individual becomes
emotionally disabled for a while, and the value
of talking to someone, eg a counsellor,.at such
times is that to an extent the distress can be
shared, and therefore more easily borne—not
that it can be avoided or suppressed. Similarly
the very threat to a key emotional relationship:
the intuition, for example that there is
something amiss in an important relationship;
or a breakdown in parents' marriage, can
have a devastating impact on an individual's
sense of emotional security, and hence on his
ability to work.
There can of course be other, less specific,
reasons why a student may be miserable and
unsettled. The university population is bound
together by two important factors. It is a young
population, and its members are all high
attainers academically. Students are not
selected on the basis of their emotional and
social maturity, and it is a striking fact that a
student who has very high academic standing
may be far less capable socially, indeed may
find it almost impossible to make relationships
with his fellow men and women at all. This
incapacity may not be highlighted until the
student moves away from the assured
structure of the family, and as a consequence a
student for whom, on paper, everything seems
to be well set-up, may in reality find him (or
her) self desperately unhappy, but not quite
knowing why.
I think that it is often helpful in these
circumstances to talk to someone, (a) on whom
one has a right to make demands, (b) in strict
confidence, and (c) who is unlikely to be
shocked or surprised at whatever is revealed. I
am very easy to contact in the basement of 15
Prince's Gardens, beneath the Student
Services Office and next door to the Health
Centre. My internal phone number is 4205.
Don Adlington
Don Adlington
Pagel4l March 11,19831 FELIX

