THE PIMLICO CONNECTION
The Pimlico Connection started seven years when twelve electrical
engineering students went to tutor at Pimlico Comprehensive School (hence the
name). Since then the project has steadily developed, and now around a hundred
people are involved each year, going to five different schools In the local area.
On Tuesday 15th March we will be having a Recruiting Lunch from 12.30 in Elec
E n g 606. This will give people who are interested a chance to meet some students
who have tutored this year, and receive more information about how the scheme
is run.
The following day, on Wednesday afternoon, we plan to take people to visit the
local schools so that they can see for themselves what tutoring involves, and meet
some of the kids and the teachers.
Luckily, tutoring is rather different from
what the teacher in "The Bash Street Kids"
shown here goes through.
Tutoring aims to give school-kids extra
interest, help and attention in small groups
of four or five, as a change from their more
normal lessons. It is not at all like formal
teaching - the atmosphere is more like that of
a group of friends. Tutors try to balance
getting to know the kids with helping them
to understand the work. Because students
are often closer to the pupils in both age and
attitudes than the teachers, the kids find it
easier to ask questions and show what they
do or do not know.
Engineering Tutoring
We help with a variety of engineering
subjects at two local comprehensive schools:
Holland Park and Pimlico. Tht actual
subjects tutored are woodwork, metalwork,
technical drawing and design and
technology.
The subject I tutored was techical drawing
at Holland Park. I found it helpful to have
had some workshop and drawing office
experience, but it is not essential. I found
that I was gaining as much as the kids from
the lessons. It is certainly important to have
had some basic workshop experience for the
other engineering subjects.
However this did not prevent me from
enjoying being with younger people who
were from a different background to myself.
I think the kids found the lessons enjoyable
as well and it made Wednesday afternoons
something to look forward to with eager
anticipation. Richard Elwen
Mech Eng 1
We tutor in science, engineering, maths and
electronics from primary level to Sixth
Form.
I greatly enjoyed my tutoring this year and
all tutors find it a thoroughly rewarding
thing to do. You can learn a great deal
yourself too, about the subject,
communicating, children, about yourself
and about the educational system.
We particularly need women students to
tutor girls who often think science and
engineering is only for boys.
If you are interested then please come
along to the lunch on March 15th..
Tony Atkins
_ „ . „ , Elec Eng 1
Fox Primary School
I have found tutoring eleven-year-olds at
Fox great fun and also very challenging. It is
certainly different to see things from the
teacher's point of view. The work group
system means that one can quickly build up
friendshps with the kids.
Science at primary level is fairly simple
but as it is so basic it is very important that
the kids understand it properly. One has to
try and explain concepts in practical terms
that can actually be seen-this can be
surprisingly difficult when one is used to
working with abstract differential equations
and so on.
One project involves building a water-
wheel and using the tap water to raise a
weight through a set of pulleys. Everyone
gets soaked, you slip on the wet floor, bits of
Sellotape are found later in your hair and it
is all marvellous fun.
Tony Atkins
Science Tutoring at Pimlico
I tutored science to thirteen and fourteen
year olds at Pimlico School.
The science taught is a mixture of
chemistry, physics and biology. Mixed
ability teaching is used, in the form of
progress cards—so allowing pupils to work
at their own pace to some extent.
Among the 'units' we covered were 'acids
and bases', 'respiration' (usually counting
your pulse rate before and after running
round the playground) and 'classification of
plants and animals'. Don't worry if you
can't remember what an arachnid is—the
answer is probably in the book!
There are generally three tutors allocated
to a class of twenty to thirty pupils. The
work often involves practical work of some
sort and it was then that the teachers most
appreciated our help.
You remain with the same one or two
classes for the whole of the session and find
that you get to know the kids quite well. The
kids I met were generally very friendly and
enthusiastic. They call you by your first
name and enquire after you if you are absent
for any reason.
It was myfirsttime as a tutor and I found
it both instructive and enjoyable. I would
definetly recommend the experience,
especially to anyone considering a career in
education. c , ^ .
bandra Cairns
If you are interested but unable to come to the
introductory meeting, just contact Dr J.S.R.
Goodlad.Elec Eng 501 (int 3080) or John Hughes,
Elec Eng 3.
Page 61 [March 11,1983 FELIX

