V t e r v ^ d R e ' W V O T E
rr 1 3 a f — " f «-
V W F O Y . . . , . , j
Cordon Bleugh
E
by Galloping Gourmand
This week's theme is desserts, without which
no meal can be complete. Although these
recipes are not to be taken lightly, some may
be described as 'Just Desserts'.
Montezuma's Revenge This highly unusual
and exotic sundae is made by combining
mashed boiled swede with stewed prunes and
a little cochineal to turn the mixture a pale
pink. This is then spooned into sundae glasses
with black cherry ice cream. When the glasses
are full, pour in Guinness to fill the gaps. Top
with a black cherry and decorate the glasses
with turnip tops.
Pineapple Fritters A perennial favourite,
pineapple fritters can be revitalised as follows.
Take a very large cabbage leaf, and put a few
dessert spoons of cold porridge in the middle.
Put a pineapple ring on top of the porridge and
cover it with more porridge. Wrap up the
cabbage leaf into a bundle and secure with a
cocktail stick. Dip it into batter and deep fry
F E L I X H H H B H H H H B H H H H H H
until golden brown. Before serving, remove the
cocktail stick and pour on some black treacle.
Extra-Special Banana Milk Shake Fry four
lettuce leaves, a few sliced radishes and a few
slices of cucumber until quite soft. Chop a
banana and put it into a blender with
vegetables and half a pint of UHT milk, Blend
until smooth, and pour into a tall glass.
Carefully place a few anchovies on top in a star
pattern. Serve with a straw.
Rampant Ramblings
by Rhyno
Does anybody remember Flanders and
Swann?
Those were the days when postage stamps
didn't have perforations, sexism was called
propriety and students either went to Oxford
or Cambridge and only got smashed on days
ending with 'y'.
All of which is somewhat of an aside,
however it is worth pointing out that at this
time, the gentlemen in question sang a song
called 'The Gas Man Cometh', which, for
those of you still in the dark concerned the
British working man (singular) keeping himself
• H March 11,1983 L f l M B B H
in business by doing the job so badly the first
time that he was required to put things right ad
infinitum.
The relevance of this to the modern society
in which we all survive, only just struck me
(forcibly) this morning.
I recall, awakening from the depths of my
slumber, coming to the conclusion that my
alarm clock sounded remarkably like
somebody trying to enter my bedroom via the
non-existant side entrance, using a percussion
drill.
Moments later I realised it wasn't my alarm
clock at all, but somebody trying to use the
side entrance.
The rest of Southside must be sharing in my
anguish as once more the maintenance men
hammer, drill and chisel their way through our
venerable hall, at what seems like a highly anti-
social hour in the morning. Not that we
shouldn't be used to it, of course, because they
were here last term, and no doubt the term
before that
Still, we wouldn't like to disturb all those
nice, money-making conferences during the
vacations, would we?
I Page7

