p WMKA800T-
%
%
• i
l l by Motile Optics Inc.
I L —
%
The" great achievement of Cubism was to
change our attitudes towards reality in art—
'realijy' now reaches beyond a picture of
surface appearances at a particular place and
time.
This week's Walkabout started at no 39
Floral Street, where a series of Pablo
(figurehead of Cubism) Picasso's etchings and
drypgints is being shown. Although none are
from Picasso's Cubist period, the creative
liberating influence of the movement is clear in
n^m.'In these prins, the plane of the paper is
still the surface or window of an illusion, but
\rjie fixed, single viewpoint has been
abandoned and the figures are analysed in
relation to each other and to the space around
and'between them.
The overpowering impression is of
spontaneity; each is an immediate response to
SiWOTtjentary impression—a beautiful woman,
a»§jjppy idea, a vision of passion or violence. .
<&4$° Ruiz Picasso
Picasso himself has said: 'Everyone wants to
understand art. Why do people love the night,
throwers and everything around us without
•JHSfetSflSo n
understanding them? But when it
CCUOTKUD a picture, people think they must
•iLma^&tand' it. I
f only they would realise once
arifjfor a
" that an artist creates because he
Ji*B«^^create, that he himself is only an
r
irJsjgnifiGant fragment of the world and that no
more attention should be paid to him than to
many other things which delight us although
we cannot explain them.' -
So go, and be delighted. Pajt of the
fascination of this series of 45 prints is that it
spans changes in Picasso's style from 1920 to
1955. Forget the austere abstraction of
Cubism and enjoy graceful classical nudes,
surrealist figures on a beach, naturalistic
portraits and a group of wittily gay pictures
showing the bucolic revels of fauns, nymphs
and muscled heroes.
When is a print not an etching?
Having said that understanding is not the
prime purpose of looking at pictures, a small
footnote, or rather mid-paragraph note, might
not come amiss to sort out the techniques of
etching and drypoint. To print the simplest
line, the artist must arrange for ink to be
« cqnyeyed to paper by means of an incision
either directly cut by a sharp instrument
„ (engraving and drypoint) or less laboriously
j- and indirectly by protecting parts of the metal
|, plate and allowing acid to erode certain
exposed areas (etching). Ink is applied to the
whoje plate and then wiped clean from the
surface but left in the crevices; it is sucked out
from these onto dampened paper under heavy
prassure from a rolling press. The depth of the
cut or the time exposed to acid affect the
amount of ink each incision can hold, and
h,ence the tone of the line. Just to confuse the
issue,, the two techniques can of course be
^qo^mbined!
"Covent Garden By Day
From the Edward Totah Gallery, I walked
nwth-east along Floral Street and turned right
down James Street towards the Piazza,
Couent Garden. 'Scribbler' is on the way, a
bright, cheerful shop selling bright, cheeful
wrapping paper, pictorial party invitations, arty
cards and postcards, and writing paper in all
Page 8 H H H M H H n H H H I
REVIEWSI
London Fixed Price Menus
Published by British Tourist Authority
Price £1.00
In many ways this is an excellent little guide
featuring over 100 menus with a wide variety of
food and prices.
A sample menu is given for each restaurant
together with prices and what is included in
terms of VAT, service, etc—some prices even
include wine.
There are also details of opening hours,
addresses, telephone numbers and how to get
there by public transport.
The guide is arranged under ten area
headings ranging from Greenwich to
Heathrow. Most of the restaurants are in
central London although a handful are within
walking distance of College.
The prices given range from under £4 to
over £20. Nearly half the menus cost between
C7 and £10, about 30% are between £5 and £7
and 10'V are less than £5.
Throughout the book is a repeated warning
that the prices may vary and that service
charges etc are liable to be added unless the
menus state that they are included. This is a
wry real point in that the term 'fixed price'
might otherwise lull you into thinking tljat the
menu price is all you would have to pay. In
fact, on a menu with a 'fixed price' of £7.50 the
cost of wine, coffee, cover charge and service
charge could well bring the actual bill to
around £24 for two.
Although the guide is clearly aimed at the
tourist market rather than the indiginous
population it is nevertheless a mouthwatering
read and a useful aid if you are looking for
somewhere to eat in an unfamiliar part of
London.
The guide is available from the College
Bookshop for the price of a cover charge or
two.
colours of the rainbow: it's sold by weight,
£2.40 per lb for paper and £3.75 per lb for
envelopes.
The redeveloped piazza is now a rather
smart tourist attraction and a fun place for the
fashion conscious to 'see and be seen'. Go
walkabout on a bright spring day: from new
and familiar titles at the Penguin Book Shop,
stroll past the tempting window of Thornton's
Family Confectioners, piled with delectable
Easter chocolates; invest in a Shetland fairisle
jersey or a classic checked viyella dressing
gown at S Fisher; amuse and embarass friends
on April 1 with sophisticated kitsch from
Strangeways.
W Penn 'Baker, Delicatessen and Fruiterer'
sells chocolate chip cookies, as big as saucers,
for 23p. If you're thinking of baking your own,
pop into Covent Garden Kitchen Supplies for
everything from Savarin moulds for rum
babas, through the Professional Sabatier range
of knives, to earthenware marmites for long
slow cooking of British hotpots and French
daubes.
Between the parades of shops is an open-air-
under-cover market selling handmade
knitwear, jewellery and 3-D wooden jigsaw
puzzles.
And when you've exhausted both wallet and 1
feet, stock up with herbal tea and traditional1
English treacle toffee (50p for 4oz) at Culpeper
the Herbalist, and head for home.
Where, When, £?
Pablo Picasso, Etchings 1920-1955, are at the |
Edward Totah Gallery, 39 Floral St WC2 until |
March 19. It's open Tues-Fri 11-6, Sat 12-4 and ,
free. The market stalls and most of the shops ]
in the Piazza are open till 7pm.
March 11,1983
Garp, cert 15, directed by George Roy Hill,
now showing at Warner West End.
T S Garp is a man struggling against the
undertow of fate. The odds are always
stacked against him winning. Conceived, when
his mother took advantage of a dying soldier's
erection, he didn't really have the best entry
into life. As one can imagine from the style of
conception his mother was quite an odd
woman. Reacting against a family to whom the
word sperm was dirty and against a life where
a woman was 'either somebody's wife or
somebody's whore' she attempted to protect
Garp from the all-powerful disease of Lust.
Tracing Garp's life from childhood to death
the film shows us Garp as a child imagining his
father to be alive. We see Garp being savaged
by a dog—he later revenges himself by
removing the dog's earlobe with his teeth! We
see Garp the aspiring writer trying to cope
with is mother's sudden notoriety, given to her
by virtue of her outrageous autobiography.
Finally we see Garp's realisation that he
himself is part of the undertow, or in his
children's words, the great and mysterious
'Under-Toad' lurking, waiting to get you.
The film tells us Garp's tangled and muddled
life through a series of very funny incidents
using many 'screwball' characters. One of
these incidents may well appeal to the
statisticians amongst us. Garp decides to buy
a house when he watches it half-demolished by
an aeroplane as the chances of it being hit
again are very slim!
Themes that run through the film are Garp's
yearning for his dead and unknown father, the
cyclic nature of life and that great leveller,
death. Shades of Tom Sharpe and Joseph
Heller, especially 'Something Happened'
continued on page 9

