Forsyth's Saga
Local Hero, cert PG, directed by Bill
Forsyth, starring Peter Riegart, Burt
Lancaster, now showing at Odeon
Haymarket.
Watching Local Hero convinced me of two
things; firstly that Bill Forsyth's success with
Gregory's Girl was no accident, but more
importantly that Britain is still capable of
producing beautifully crafted, intelligent films.
As producer David Puttnam (whose credits
range from Midnight Express to Fame to
Chariots of Fire) explained on a recent South
Bank Show, Local Hero is aimed to fill a gap in
the popular film market—it is a gentle comedy
which updates and extends the old Ealing
Comedy tradition.
It concerns the attempts of an American oil
company's attempt to purchase a remote
Scottish village, lock, stock and beach, in
order to build a pipeline terminal. Eccentric
multi-millionaire Felix Kapper (Burt Lancaster)
sends young executive Maclntyre (played with
great skill by newcomer Peter Riegert) to
clinch the deal. He arrives with a wimpish local
rep in tow and soon discovers that the quiet
life of the village encroaches on his former
lifestyle. The local spiv, Urquhart,. posing
alternately as hotel owner and lawyer, is left
to handle the deal and soon money fever
trickles into the community.
It is difficult to decide which particular
qualities make this such an outstanding film
Bill Forsyth's disjointed narrative lends itself
naturally to light comedy. As in Gregory's Girl,
the casual observation of many characters
leads to a sprawling, meandering plot which
weaves uncertainly through some wonderfully
comic scenes.
In addition the photography is quite
stunning, making the Scottish location look
more appealing than many a tropical paradise.
More than this, Kapper's obsession with the
stars means that all too rare attention is played
to the beauty of the night sky, resulting in
some truly memorable scenes.
On top of all this a fine cast of mainly
unknown actors do full justice to the setting.
Peter Riegert and Denis Lawson (who plays
the randy, opportunist, jack-of-all-trades
Urquhart) deserve special mention for
controlled and confident performances.
More familiar faces also fare well, including
Fulton Mackay as beachcomber Ben Knox,
who eventually obstructs the plans, to the
dismay of the whole village. Burt Lancaster
was quite obviously cast to add prestige to the
project and was an excellent choice. Although
he only appears fleetingly, it is enough to
remind you that he is one of the best American
actors in the cinema.
But overall, what does the film offer? It is
one of those rare films which is warmly
romantic without being over-sentimental and
leaves you with a warm glow of appreciation.
The unashamed optimism (of the ending in
particular) cannot fail to be both satisfying and
re-assuring, but it is the comedy which
provides the basis of the film. We see how
Maclntyre grows to love the little village while
Gee what is this place anyway?
all its occupants are busy planning how to
spend their millions. Odd characters turn up,
like the Russian trawler captain with a taste for
capitalism who tells him 'You cannot eat
scenery Mac!' Throw in the local motorbiker
(played by Gregory himself, John Gordon
Sinclair) plus a few more running jokes and
you have a sparkling comedy which, while
never making your sides ache, seems to
provoke a constant chuckle.
Local Hero is a fine example of how
entertaining simple, honest films can be. Its
faults are minor and I cannot see any reason
, how anyone can fail to enjoy it. Indeed, it's the
sort of film which should have audiences
rushing back to the cinema for more and is
another step towards re-establishing the ailing
British film industry.
So, tear yourself away from the television
and go and see it. This film is definitely too
good to miss.
Mark Smith
appear in the plot.
Having said all this, the film is ultimately
dissappointing. Perhaps it is just that this sort
of story is not suited to the large budget
Americanised film treatment. Perhaps a more
adventurous style could have been attempted
by director George Ray Hill. It is the sort of
story that needs to jump energetically from
incident to incident and back again not
necessarily in any coherent order. For the
sake of continuity much of the satire has been
sacrificed. Instead of the pace being kept up
driving towards the (unexpected) ending, the
film comes over as a series of very funny
incidents punctuated by portions of American
soap opera (yuk). True, the film has inspired
parts, especially the animated sequence
depicting Garp's father, and Garp imagining
the suicide of a dinner jacket pianist from a
seventh floor apartment block window. These
scenes are not capitalised upon, instead the
pace slackens and we await the next 'funny
turn'. For a story that attempts to profess that
life should be lived the film moves a little
slowly.
Another disappointing aspect of the film is
that, by its nature, the story seems relevant
only to Garp. Many opportunities for
comment on wider issues are missed. The film
begins to explore attitudes to women, men's
fears of women and above all the great
'Undertoad'. However, it never really finishes
what it starts.
A word on performances. Robin Williams
plays the part of Garp far too honestly. Garp
should appear more like Yossarian of 'Catch
22' than the ail-American boy with a weird
mother. His mother is played nicely by Glenn
Close but again the performance lacks anv real
'bite'. Perhaps the best characterisation comes
from John Lithgow as Roberta Muldoon the
transexual ex-football player befriended by
Garp's mother and later Garp.
Finally, although disapponted that the film
didn't carry through to its potential to satirise
and lampoon American life and attitudes,
Garp is an entertaining film worth seeing for
some very funny scenes. It's just a shame that
what has the potential to be a visual Tom
Sharpe novel—isn't.
Chris Mailaband
Loopy goings on featuring the family Garp.
FELIXI March 11,1983 Page 9

