14 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
23.01.2015
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
with mental health problems find it
difficult to cope with the pressures
and demands of university. Having
been high-achievers all their lives,
they are advised to take a year or
more out of this environment to
recover. As a result, they are kept
away from their close friends, and
indeed their friends may have
graduated by the time they are well
enough to resume education, which
poses an additional difficulty.
The truth is that mental illnesses
are more common than people think,
especially in an intense environment
that strives for academic excellence,
where competition between peers
can be a contributing factor. People
with mental illnesses may never fully
recover, despite the best medicines
and talking therapy. Their condition
can relapse unexpectedly. Mental
illnesses are unpredictable, much like
the British weather!
Mental illness sufferers are
vulnerable. They are more likely to
become victims of physical, sexual,
and drug abuse. The chances of
this are further aggravated by an
unsupportive or unknowing college
community.
The same goes for students whose
A lot of people have started admitting that they need help after long periods of silence. Photo: Facebook
chronic physical health problems
cause them to experience an
interruption in their studies. People
with chronic physical illnesses often
develop mental health problems in
the long term.
In this New Year, there ought to
be actions taken by the student body
to address this matter of concern.
Mental Health Awareness Week is
only the start of a long road ahead.
Imperial College students should
embrace colleagues with mental
illnesses and support their study at
university. It is time to break the
silence.
capitalise on this.
This failure is worth reflecting
on; with the collapse of the Soviet
Union, the traditional socialist and
communist parties were decisively
discredited. Subsequently, the
90s were, following an influential
article by political theorist Wendy
Brown, a period of melancholy for
the left, with the most trenchant
intellectual example probably being
Eric Hobsbawm’s magisterial but
deeply pessimistic Age of Extremes.
It was probably this collapse more
than anything else that allowed – to
again reference Hobsbawm – the
neo-revisionism of a ‘Thatcher in
trousers’ to completely bankrupt the
social democracy of the Labour party,
self-advocated until 1995.
This neo-revisionism has deeper
roots, however; Eduard Bernstein
was the leading intellectual light
It’s time for action on mental illness
Why are university students still so afraid to admit they need help?
Some brief notes on Labour
Christy Kelly discusses whether votes for Labour mean social change
for the early Labour grandees – Keir
Hardie and Ramsay MacDonald –
while the Labour party was formed
in opposition to, or at least as distinct
from, Hyndmann’s Social Democratic
Federation and William Morris’
Communist League. This gave
Labour a reformist tendency from its
conception which it has never lost.
This reformist instinct pushed
Labour to the right over the course
of the 20th
century. The tendency
was neither uniform nor total: the
growth of Communist parties –
immediately after 1917, just after the
depression, just after WWII – tended
to act as a countervailing force for
Labour pushing it left to preserve its
electorate, while the great advances
of revisionism were in the 50s
under Gaitskell, due to the success
of capitalism in the period and cold
war tensions, as well as the late 80s
and 90s, in response to persistent
defeats at the hands of a new global
neoliberal ascendancy originating
with Thatcher.
The problem with Labour today
is that it has remained insensitive
to the ideological currents of recent
years. There is much overblown
talk of a ‘return to socialism’ from
Labour but alas, the most depressing
moment of the Labour party
conference was not the spectacle of an
incompetent party ‘leader’ delivering
an embarrassing speech, but an Ed
Balls whose economic proposals rang
out in a Tory register, the occasional
dissonance – say, the mansion tax –
serving only to highlight the essential
harmony. It is perhaps high time to
face the fact that Labour is not a party
of the left, and voting for them serves
more to settle our own consciences
than help promote social change.
I’ve never been a good writer, and
have never before written for
Felix. However, I have lately felt
a strong desire to write, as a voice for
those who may be suffering in silence.
Throughout the last couple of
months, and up to the turn of 2015, a
small but highly significant number
of people I have become acquainted
with have revealed that they have
been suffering from mental health
problems in one form or another.
These shocking stories are often
revealed in personalised narratives
to friends, via Facebook, after a long
period of silence. I daresay those who
are brave enough to do so represent
only a minority.
Why does it take people so long
to tell someone that they need help?
And what about those who have never
told anyone? The reason is people are
scared. People are afraid that they will
be judged. People are fearful of being
labelled as ‘mad’ or ‘not normal’. The
consequences and stigma associated
with mental illness lead to many
people preferring the option to suffer
in silence. They should not be. After
all, we all have different personalities.
Our experiences shape our individual
selves. Therefore university students
should not be afraid to speak out.
Without support from college, and
a caring community, however, people
YIFEI WANG
COMMENT WRITER
Imight characterise a typology
of reactions by us, on the left,
to the three-main parties in the
forthcoming election as follows:
firstly, repulsed by the Lib Dems
for the betrayal of much of their
electorate at the last election and
their hypocritical self-righteousness
in their moral criticism of the Tories,
which tries to cover up their support
for the same austerity economics.
The Tories are even worse, if that’s
possible, in their banal nationalism,
their hatred of education and their
offensive neoliberalism; while the
incompetence of Labour leaders and
their mild economic reformism can
only come as a remarkable let-down
in the face of a genuine radicalisation
of the British public over the past few
years or so.
As a sad aside, I will mention
here that the biggest beneficiary
of this radicalisation has been
UKIP. UKIP perform the tried and
tested techniques of all right-wing
populisms: a fairly abstract, and thus
often reasonably accurate, criticism
of existing political institutions and
structures, followed by a short-circuit
mediated by some ‘enemy’ – in this
case ‘immigrants’ or EU bureaucrats
– to conservative – in the sense of
conserving the current status quo – or
reactionary policies.
UKIP’s economic policies are
largely conservative (although in
another sense, the current neoliberal
dogma is radically utopian and
not conservative in the least), their
policies on immigration reactionary.
The prime reason for the growth
of UKIP, however, is not the
radicalisation of the British public as
such, however, but the failure of the
traditional parties of the left to

