THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 17
FELIX 23.01.2015
Science Editor James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
First UK organ transplant from a newborn
The UK’s first organ donation
from a newborn baby has been
performed at an Imperial
College NHS Trust hospital.
The donor, a baby girl, was born
after an emergency caesarean at
Hammersmith hospital. She was
deprived of oxygen during the
difficult birth and suffered severe
neurological damage. Despite efforts
to treat her, doctors soon realised
she was brain dead and had no hope
of recovery. Six days after birth, her
heart finally stopped.
Two patients received tissues from
the donor. A patient suffering from
renal failure received her kidneys,
while another received a donation of
hepatocytes, which are cells that make
up the bulk of liver tissue.
Dr Gaurav Atreja, consultant
neonatologist at Hammersmith
hospital said: “It is due to the extreme
generosity of the parents and
wonderful professional collaboration
between the neonatal team and the
organ donation team that this process
was successful.
“We know for many families who
suffer the heartbreaking loss of a
baby or any family member, that the
donation of organs, which could help
other sick patients to lead healthy
lives, can provide a huge sense of
comfort.”
This is the first time in the UK that
organs have been donated from an
infant who was under 2 months old,
although similar operations have
previously been performed in the
US, Germany and Australia, where
guidelines differ.
People who have suffered brain
stem death, but whose heart is still
beating, are often suitable organ
donors. If the heart has stopped the
body is no longer receiving oxygen,
and tissues will become irreparably
damaged very quickly. Donors are
often kept on a ventilator to prevent
damage to their organs until they can
be transplanted.
In the case of very young children
however, doctors are required to wait
for their heart to stop beating before
carrying out the transplant, as their
nervous system is not sufficiently
developed for doctors to be certain
that their brain is no longer
functioning. Unfortunately, this
means that the blood supply to their
organs is cut off for a time, risking
long term damage that would make
them unsuitable for transplanting
into another patient.
Although it’s extremely rare for
approval to be obtained to use organs
from very young babies, a 2014 study
by Great Ormond Street Hospital
found that up to half the newborns
who died in their intensive care
facility could be eligible to donate
organs. A review into the current
guidelines, which prohibit doctors
from diagnosing brain death in
newborns, will be published by the
Royal College of Paediatrics and
Child Health later this year.
Hammersmith hospital: Two patients received tissues from the donor, a baby girl who died six days after birth.
Photo: Imperial
James Bezer on the new procedure performed at Imperial
Hubble takes 1.5 billion pixel photo of Andromeda
JAMES BEZER
SCIENCE EDITOR
The Hubble space telescope has
taken the highest resolution
image ever made of a galaxy.
The image is so detailed that it’s
possible to resolve individual stars in
a 61,000 light-year wide panorama.
Andromeda is the Milky Way’s
nearest neighbour, 2.5 million
light- years away from us. The image,
taken as part of the Panchromatic
Hubble Andromeda Treasury (PHAT)
programme, was formed from over
7398 individual images taken over
411 pointings.
It was formed from images taken
in the near-ultraviolet, visible and
near-infrared parts of the spectrum.
Much of the image shows large dust
structures. The centre of the galaxy
is filled with densely packed stars.
Large groups of blue stars indicate
star forming regions. The highest-resolution image ever created by Hubble shows the Andromeda galaxy, 2.5 million light years away from earth Photo: NASA

