THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 29
FELIX 23.01.2015
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
Chris Richardson catches some house and techno heavyweights along Singapore’s coastline
The gospel according to Zouk
By the time it came around to
ZoukOut I’d been on the road
for several months, a continu-
ing holiday trend throughout my
time at Imperial that’s led to me miss-
ing almost every major music festival
since I started uni. This year was
supposed to be different but, alas, my
optimistic KaZantip plans crumbled
in the face of the Crimean crisis when
organisers were forced to cancel. I
swore to myself that if I heard the
words “turn down for what” or “why
you gotta be so rude” one more time,
I was just about ready to cut someone
and/or myself. Embracing music is
certainly a healthy part of any travel
experience. I mean I love reggaeton as
much as the next guy, totally digged
that Omar Souleyman record and
even managed to sniff out some tidy
South African tribal house on a trip
there, but nothing could compare
to the heavyweights on the bill of
ZoukOut 2014.
ZoukOut is Asia’s only sunrise
beach festival, and every year sees
tens of thousands of revellers take
to the sand to bounce to some of the
world’s best international DJs – seven
of the eight international DJs on
the Star Stage featured in this year’s
Resident Advisor Top DJs poll –
kicking off at dusk and continuing
well past dawn the following day.
The festival is the brainchild of the
good people at Zouk, a Singapore
institution that over the last two
decades has been graced with talent
from Carl Cox and Paul Van Dyk
to Bonobo and Tale Of Us. It takes
place on Siloso Beach in Sentosa, an
artificial paradise along Singapore’s
southern tip.
The festival acts are split across two
stages. The Moon Stage is the main
stage, catering for arguably-bigger
names including Above & Beyond
and Steve Aoki on the Friday, and
Martin Garrix and Skrillex on the
Saturday. But my focus at the festival
was the smaller Star Stage, which
hosted the likes of Loco Dice and
Richie Hawtin on the Friday, and
Maya Jane Coles and Nina Kraviz
on the Saturday. During the festival
there was the typical snobbery found
among the dance music crowd, with
some at the Star Stage disregarding
the Moon Stage – as one reveller put
it – as “commercial shit that’s ruining
dance music culture”. A far cry from
the ‘one tribe’ idea put forward by the
festival’s promoters.
Anyway, I can confirm that the
VIP areas at both stages were full to
the brim with barely-dressed girls
and peacocking meatheads more
interested in scoring than enjoying
the music, so both sides certainly
have their vices. I personally view the
Moon Stage as a great introduction
for those previously unacquainted
with the dance music world: a gateway
drug to darker sounds, if you will.
Throughout the weekend many made
the trek to the Star Stage, with most
of them mesmerised by unfamiliar
sounds, a trend towards musical
discovery that’ll no doubt continue
in the festival’s wake. And surely
opening people’s eyes to new sounds
can only be a good thing. That said,
I’d much rather have Richie Hawtin
smash a speaker in my face than get
caked by Steve Aoki.
The festival went in hard on the
Friday night, as party goers waved
goodbye to the working week and
put on their dancing shoes. After a
couple of striking opening sets that
got everyone in the mood, Detroit’s
Magda hit the decks to pick up
the pace with some rich industrial
vibes, which segued into Loco Dice’s
established brand of groovy bass,
before Richie Hawtin closed the
evening with a hefty dose – he had the
longest set across both stages and days
– of dark minimal techno. Saturday
night was equally strong, with rising
star Mano Le Tough and veteran
Damian Lazarus delivering quality
performances, setting the scene for
a delicious deep set from Maya Jane
Coles that coincided with beautiful
fireworks over the water behind
both stages. Next, Grammy-winning
Dubfire spun a seamless funky set
before stepping down to make way
for techno goddess Nina Kraviz, who
absolutely killed it as always.
I was particularly interested in
the presence of home-grown talent,
of which the Star Stage at ZoukOut
offered plenty, both behind the decks
and grooving on the sand. Red Bull
have spotted the potential in Debbie
Chia, while Zouk resident Jeremy
Boon has already made it as far as
Amsterdam Dance Event. A special
shout-out also goes to Hong: Kraviz
is undoubtedly a tough act to follow,
especially at 7 o’clock in the morning,
but he managed to creatively
prevent a mass exodus by spinning
the latest Caribou effort ‘Can’t Do
Without You’, which kept revellers
glued for the final hour. It could be
the mixing skills, sure, but this was
obviously aided by dropping this
belter from Imperial’s most beloved
musical alumnus (sorry Brian May).
It was also refreshing to see a solid
representation of Singaporeans in the
crowd, proof of the unabating power
of the internet to deliver fresh beats
to anyone interested, irrespective of
geographical location.
You might think that Singapore’s
harsh drug laws would be a double-
edged sword, and you’d be wrong.
The logic of drug advocates usually
goes that alcohol brings out the worst
in disgruntled young men and ruins
the vibe of the party, although my
experience at ZoukOut and recent
reading of Mark Easton’s Britain
Etc. would lead me to believe that
this is probably just a British (or,
at best, European) phenomenon.
While it would be difficult to
separate narcotics from western club
culture, there was a distinct absence
at Singapore, which was extremely
refreshing to see. Rather than
looking around to spot young minds
losing their shit to pretty much
anything blasting out of the speakers,
Singapore’s sober crowd required a
certain level of finesse in order to
be entertained. There were no fights
breaking out or casualties arising
from tainted batches of pills, just a
bunch of young people there for a
good time. This adds a huge degree of
credibility to a subculture that for too
long has been tarnished by stimulant
use; for this I believe ZoukOut is
worthy of some bonus points.
All in all, ZoukOut was executed
with perfect precision. The organisers
did a fantastic job on every front,
including free transport to and
from the venue, reasonably-priced
(by Singapore standards) food and
drinks, and a blinding array of
fireworks. But, most importantly,
the artists were at the top of their
game; every set was flawless and
brought unique magic to the dance
floor, projected far and wide by the
epic sound systems. Whether you’re
interning, travelling, or heading
home for the holidays, be sure to
have ZoukOut on your cards for next
year.
They don't have palm trees at Glastonbury. Photo: Chris Richardson

