32 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
23.01.2014
Arts Editor Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Cyprien Tokoudagba is
quite simply my favourite
contemporary African artist
yet hardly known outside a very
small group of art consumers, left in
the wake of the well established El
Anatsui and Ablade Glover. Unlike
the stereotypical loud, busy and
somewhat overwhelming African art,
Tokoudagba draws from influences
other than the continent’s rapid
urbanisation and explores aspects of
the region’s rich cultural and spiritual
history. Harking from Benin, the
home of Vodun (voodoo) and the
powerful Kingdom of Dahomey, the
sculptor and painter established his
career as a restorer of traditional
royal palaces and temples and hence
had unprecedented access to the
dying traditions of the Fon people.
Creating surreal works steeped in
Vodun symbolism, his works leave
you with a sense of unease, haunting,
as if left in a trance by the creatures
suspended on the cream background.
His works paint a different picture of
Africa, one of its too often overlooked
history, as opposed to its perceived
present of corruption, war and
famine.
Unlike Tokoudagba, the young
Ivorian artist Aboudia forces Africa
to confront its dark present. Taking
the stylised image of the mask, he
adds violence to it with his harsh
brushstrokes, ripping apart this
romanticised symbol of African
pride. He shows that the world
that is represented through these
masks no longer exists, replaced
by a cruel world of death, violence
and destruction. With his heavily
overlaid collages, he creates conflict
and confusion, dark colours and
skeletal figures draped in AK-47’s. He
provides a rare critique, a rare protest
amongst artists who force themselves
to be positive whilst ignoring Africa’s
ugliness. These two artists are nothing
like what you would expect from
African Art.
Much like the internationally
renowned human-rights lawyer and
activist Amal Ramzi Alamuddin is
now forever known as ‘Mrs Clooney’,
Camille Claudel has gone down in
history as ‘Rodin’s lover’. The truth is
so much more interesting than that;
a French sculptor and artist, Claudel
– barred from attending the École des
Beaux-Arts due to her gender – took
it upon herself to learn her craft,
studying under Alfred Boucher, and
renting a workshop with other young
female artists. Her work is dramatic,
heroic, romantic, and tragic. What
little of her work survives today
reveals a true artistic talent, whose
ability to transfigure a block of onyx
into a living sculpture is nothing
short of astonishing. In 1913, at the
request of her brother, Claudel was
There’s More to Art than White Western Males
Fred Fyles and Kamil McClelland give five overlooked artists that you should know about
admitted to an insane asylum; she
never left, dying there in 1943. Her
remains were buried in a communal
grave, am insult to her legacy and
talent.
A lot of art is about empowerment,
about representation. It is this
that makes the work of Zanele
Muholi so important. A South
African photographer who mixes
in activism with her work, Muholi
documents the lives of innumerable
South African lesbians who live in
fear of corrective rape, assault, and
murder. Mapping the identity of
her community, Muholi documents
an unsteady course through post-
apartheid South Africa, a country in
which equal marriage is enshrined
in the constitution, but the LGBTQ
community is constantly under
threat. Although active for more than
a decade, her work is still highlighting
this tragedy that is often ignored by
the Western media.
Ok, so Anni Albers may not be an
‘unknown artist’ – her Wikipedia
page describes her as the best
known textile artist of the 20th
century – but her medium is grossly
underappreciated in an art world
that tends to be hostile to anything
deemed ‘decorative’ or ‘trivial’
(never mind the fact that such fields
tend to be those in which women
are most prominent). Studying
at the Bauhaus during its golden
era under Walter Gropius, Albers
immediately displayed a strong skill
with textile work, particularly her
eye for repeating geometric patterns.
Marrying fellow artist Josef Albers,
the pair fled to North Carolina in
1933 to escape the Nazis – once there
she began to teach at art schools,
and published numerous articles
on modern design. Passing away in
1994, at the age of 94, Albers has
left a legacy in textile design that
is unmatched by any other artist;
her striking patterns, which take in
Russian constructivism, German
modernism, and pre-Columbian
artistry, are ground-breaking in their
freshness, looking just as new as the
day they were woven.
Clockwise from top left: Untitled by Cyprien Tokoudagba; Detail from Spiritual Conversations by Aboudia; Bongiwe Twana Kunene by Zanele Muholi;
Study Rug by Anni Albers; Waltz by Camille Claudel

