38 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
23.01.2015 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
Games Editor Max Eggl & Calum Skene
Games
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2015: Three Games that Excite
Max Eggl really, really looking forward to these titles
Review of 2014:
Pretty Disappointing
MAXIMILIAN EGGL
GAMES EDITOR
2014 could have been such an amazing year.There
was so much potential.We had the graphical
promise of what could have been a true GTA rival
(WatchDogs),we could have had a spiritual successor
to Halo (Destiny),we might have had the MMO that
finally knocks WoW off its porch (ElderScrollsOnline).
That is not even a tiny bit of the disappointments
that gamers faced; think the botched launches of
the Assassin’sCreeds, Titanfall orSims4.These were
all supposed to be amazing games that would build
on their predecessors and push gaming boundaries.
What we got were rushed games,that really didn’t
offer much apart from lacking content,micro
transactions,DLCs or bugs.
However,while the big studios all in all failed to
deliver on the year of the next generation,the indies
and smaller studios stepped into the limelight.
Excellent games like GoatSimulator and 5Nightsat
Freddies became viral,and made up for the other
publishers failings.In fact,we also had a big shift in
the gaming world with bigger companies buying into
the success of the smaller companies,like Microsoft
buying Mojang and Facebook buying Oculus Rift.
One big winner of 2014 was Nintendo.After getting
a lot of flack for their Wii U and a lack of titles,
Nintendo has been able to build some momentum,
flying under most gamers’radars.With excellent
Pokémon games (especially the unexpected remakes
of Sapphire and Ruby) as well as a new Zelda game
they have driven up sales of their 3DS.The Wii U was
aided by releases of MarioKart and SmashBros among
others.Nintendo’s situation doesn’t seem as dire
anymore,and 2014 once again proved that in terms
of actual IP,Nintendo is king.
Worryingly 2014 has seen an increase in Day-One
DLCs,Micro transactions and paytowin mechanics.
This monetisation of gaming is frightening,and I
hope that it is a trend that won’t continue into 2015.
"I just
hope that
[Battlefront]
won't be a
re-skin of
Battlefield 4"
Star Wars Battlefront
My first ever shooter was Star
Wars Battlefront 2 for the
ps2. Trust me when I tell
you that I wasted an extraordinary
amount of my school years playing
this game. It was a pretty epic game.
However, it was released back in
2005, 10 years ago. Therefore the
announcements that the next
Battlefront is coming this year have
filled me with excitement as well as
trepidation. Excitement, because
obviously I get to see a new version of
a game I hold dearly and trepidation
because this new version is going to be
produced by EA.
The teaser trailer really did a lot to
hype the game, and I just hope that
this won’t be a re-skin of Battlefield 4.
This game is expected on all platforms
and will be released with the new Star
Wars film in late 2015.
The Next Big Gaming Trend: Space Simulations
Maximilian Eggl on why No Man’s Sky, Star Citizen and Elite are the future
The past few years, ever since
the release and subsequent re-
release of DayZ, we have had an
explosion of Zombie survival MMOs.
In fact, I am surprised when there is
a month when I don’t see news about
a new one. However, it has become
quite tiring, since there are only
so many times I can wake up on an
abandoned beach. It seems that most
of the gaming market is coming to
this conclusion, as we have reached a
saturation point. Looking at upcom-
ing releases, I feel that the next big
gaming will be the open world Space
Sim.
Being an astronaut is a dream that
most kids have, and I can promise you
I was one of them. However, given
that most of us enjoy a pint or two/
don’t have a pilot’s license or enjoy
20/20 vision it is not really that likely.
Furthermore, the kind of space travel
as repeated in the science fiction
Just Cause 3
The grappling hook, parachute
and crazy physics have all
entered gaming culture. Now
it seems we will get to use them once
again in the newest Just Cause, in
addition to a wingsuit. While the
game mechanics will remain mostly
the same, the location and story are
completely new. The new map is on
par in terms of size with that of JC2,
but you now have the ability to explore
subterranean caves. Furthermore, its
located in the Mediterranean and you
return as Rico to battle against the
dictator General Di Ravello.
Given the stance that there will be no
microtransactions in this game, I have
hope that this game will deliver on all
its promise. This game will be available
on all platforms with no exact release
date at the moment.
Zelda Wii U
LegendofZeldaisthatone
franchisethateveryonehas
heardof,andanyonewhocalls
themselvesagamerhasplayedatleast
oneoftheentriesofthisjuggernaut.
ThereforealotisridingonZelda Wii U
(theofficialtitleisstillunknown).The
hypetraininghasjustbeengoingon
andon,andeversinceitwasknownthat
itwouldbeopenworld,beengathering
speed.Thedescriptionthatitlookslike
theSkyrimversionofZeldadoesseem
tohavesometruth,andallthebetter.
Hopefullythisgamewillbeableto
fullyutilisethehardwarethattheWiiU
hastoofferandincorporatethesecond
screeninameaningfulway.
Thisgamewillbeonlyavailable
onWiiU(kindofobvioussinceit’s
Nintendo),howeveramorespecificdate
isnotknown.
novels is not really the kind stuff you
will be getting up to. Therefore at this
given time the only way to experience
space and everything beyond is
through your computer.
However, up until just a few years
ago the computing power to galaxies,
solar systems and even planets
was not really in the hands of the
average Joe. Therefore the games that
allowed you to truly feel like you were
cruising out in space, in terms of raw
computing power as well as virtual
reality accessories, weren’t being
created. The dreams just didn’t have
the tools to become reality.
Until now. The ability to
procedurally generate billions of
planets, each one of them unique is
one of the key features of the game
No Man’s Sky which will be released
in 2015. However, this isn’t even the
entire story. In addition to planets,
suns, black holes the entire surface of
the planet, with oceans, mountains,
plants and animals will always be
created in your computer. This is
only ONE of many games coming out
in the next few years.
Others in the list include Elite:
Dangerous and Star Citizen, both
games that were funded on
Kickstarter. In fact, Star Citizen
managed to garner of $60,000,000.
That if anything shows that there is
interest out there for an immersive,
almost infinite universe that you can
explore in your own spaceship.
Both these games will feature a
pervasive multiplayer galaxy that is
much larger than anything you could
ever explore. Furthermore, they focus
on realism so that the orbits of the
objects you will fly around will be
as close to real data as possible. You
have the ability to play the game the
way you want, as a smuggler, pirate
or trader with hyper realistic game
mechanics and come the closest to
living out your dream of being an
astronaut.
We were all born too early/ too late
to really have any part in any large
explorations. We cannot rediscover
America or be the first to see things
on Pluto that no one ever has. This
need for curiosity to see new things
and be places no one has ever been is
an inherent trait of each human, and
the only way we can satisfy this need
is through the simulations of these
games.

