THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 39
FELIX 23.01.2015
Food
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editor Carol Ann Cheah
How to quickly use your noodle(s)
"But Caz, why are you so angry with that Italian chef?" "It's fusilli reasons." Photo: Felix Food
Carol Ann Cheah offers a healthy solution to the instant stuff
Old friends,
new ventures
CAROL ANN CHEAH
SECTION EDITOR
In the last fortnight I’ve had the pleasure of
meeting up with my former colleagues from Earl’s
Court on two separate occasions.The weekend
before term,a work junior of mine invited me for a
catch-up cocktail to gossip about changes at my old
workplace.
Over my lovely Tiramisu martini,made by my
favourite ex-colleague bartender,I was treated to a
bunch of horror stories about my former manager
gone wild.Nothing I was surprised by,going by past
experience; nevertheless,it’s still rather saddening
watching the place go from being open every day
to only operating Thursday-Saturday.The bar
staff,though mostly unchanged from when I‘left’
(it’s a long,unpleasant story),have had to pick up
second or even third jobs to make up for the drop
in pay.The waiting staff,who spend the most time
dealing with the manager from hell,have all but
changed–excluding the work junior who invited me.
Mismanagement rot is a lovely thing...not!
This visit gave me the closure I needed,though; I
was still very much miffed at how I was left hanging
without hours or a word back in August...but looking
at how the place has gone downhill,I’ve probably
dodged a bullet there.In hindsight I’m not sure
what I was thinking,juggling late bar hours with an
engineering degree.Never again,definitely not in
the near future.
As for the other colleague,who was the former
head chef of the place...he had a stint opening his
own traditional Neapolitan pizza joint in Stansted,
but has since left that venture and has now broken
into the London street food scene.At the moment
his old-school Citroen pizza van operates two days
a week,though they’re looking to double that by
April.The Sud Italia team keep things interesting by
changing the menu offerings every week.
I managed to check out Bruno’s wares this Saturday
just gone: the pizzas were just as yummy,if not more
so,from what I recall him making at the old bar.The
best bit? It’s all properly wood-fired–yes,from that
little truck! He also has an adjoining stall selling
little food tidbits like buffalo mozzarella,amaretti
biscuits and pecorino flown in from Italy...as well
as my Achilles’heel: home-made nduja sausage.If
I weren’t skint at the time I would’ve bought their
whole stock; at £2.50 for a decent-sized portion,
though,I managed to get enough.Call me biased,
but I find even Whole Foods’offering just isn’t spicy
enough for me.
Imperialites living near these areas can check
them out at Brook Green Market and Kitchen on
Bolingbroke Road (Saturdays 10am-3pm),and The
Food Market Chiswick on Grove Park Farm House
(Sundays 10am-2pm).All 9 inch pizzas are a fiver; tell
Bruno or Silvio that Carol sent you–enjoy!
"One
advantage
you’re going
to have here
is that you
can add
lots more
unprocessed
colour and
flavour."
Happy 2015, everyone! Between
deadlines in early January,
prepping for new module
lectures this term and catching up
with the stuff I missed last term
when the Vile Bug of Winter ‘14 hit
Imperialites (and their dogs...) finding
time to cook decent meals has been
rather difficult: So difficult that the
headline pun this week is an awfully
poor reference to what most of us
have been doing during the exam
week just gone.
I digress. As the academic year
resumes and speed picks up, I’ll gladly
admit my meal routines easily suffer.
Though thanks to the combined
genius that is Hugh Fearnley-
Whittingstall (the River Cottage
bloke, yes!) and J. Kenji Lopez-Alt (of
The Food Lab on Seriouseats.com),
I may have found one of my new
favourite fallback lunches. It’s even
easier and quicker than my favourite
mushroom and cream pasta, or my
fried rice mainstay – these being my
usual no-brainer solutions to a quick,
healthy and filling meal.
Ladies and gents of the Imperial
realm, I present to you a somewhat-
instant noodle solution that’s full
of POTential, yet only requires
you to Just Add Water(TM)
when it’s
mealtime. (No, I’m not apologizing
for this pun either.)
But first: why even bother?
You don’t need me to tell you
about the perils of conventional
pot noodles: everything from the
nutritional value (or lack thereof),
to the fact that it’s not the most
appetizing-looking thing you can
have; two things which the solution
I’m about to show you fixes very well.
Felix Food published an “Epic(ally
Broke) Meal Time” feature in the last
issue of Summer 2013, with ideas on
turning boil-in-the-pot instant ramen
into a cheap gourmet meal.
That’s all and well when you have
access to a stove, but how about if
you’re constantly at your desk? It’s
actually easier than you think to DIY
some cup noodles to your tastes.
The best way to come up with
a variety of flavour options is to
“compartmentalize” the components
of your “pot noodle” meal, and then
do a bit of mixing and matching.
We’ll go over each component
separately; think of this as a method
overview rather than a recipe per se.
The soup (base)
Full disclosure: this is the bit that is
going to contribute the underlying
flavour and salt to the whole meal, so
it’s wise to be prudent with the base
that you end up using. The Food Lab
swears by Better Than Bouillon soup
base (available on Amazon), which
has quite a substantial meat content;
our River Cottage master uses good-
quality bouillon powder/cubes. The
key takeaway is that it has to be
concentrated to save space, and as dry
as possible so it stays fresh for longer.
If you go down the bouillon route,
your OXO and Knorr mainstays
just aren’t going to cut it here. The
flavour quality just isn’t up to snuff,
and the salt content is going to give
you a heart attack in more ways than
one. I’ve found that Kallo isn’t too
shabby for this; they make “very low
salt” versions that don’t skimp on
the flavour. In the meantime though
I’m actually coming up with a base
alternative to Better than Bouillon;
there will be a sequel to this article –
with other ideas – when it’s perfected!
Most of the time, I tend to amplify
the bouillon base with other sauces
and pastes in my larder. Miso,
gochujang, black or yellow bean...
there are loads of options out there. It
just adds that much more complexity
to the dish. I’ve even used homemade
kimchi as a flavour booster before!
Your meat and (two) veg
One advantage you’re going to have
here is that you can add lots more
unprocessed colour and flavour.
It’s important however that you
NEVER use raw meat; it’s not going
to properly cook when you add water.
Meat plucked from a supermarket
roast chicken (or from leftover
Sunday roast) works well, though you
can get amazing results with beef
biltong/jerky.
For the veggie component, small
diced frozen veg is great for this. I’ve
used everything from grated carrot
and julienned bell peppers to raw
sliced mushrooms.
The freshness doesn’t stop there. I
almost always keep a plastic packet
of chopped herbs/scallions to garnish
when the noodles are ‘done cooking’.
The noodle noggin’
So now you’ve eschewed the pre-fried
ramen, the easiest noodles to use
in these are rice noodles – namely
vermicelli, or the flat stuff used in
pad thai. After that, fresh egg noodles
(the ‘straight-to-wok’ kinds in chiller
cabinets) work well.
If you really must use dried noodles
or pasta, it’s definitely worth par-
cooking them a bit, then shocking
them in cold water to stop them from
cooking any further. You might find
some of the straight-to-wok noodles
might need a bit of help as well.
From here, I’ll drain and toss them
in a wee bit of oil (sesame preferred)
to stop them from sticking, then add
them to the jar I’m using.
The vessel
You want something that’s pint-sized
onwards. Glass jars are great; recycle
a mason/jam jar if you have one that
size. I’m a sucker for loads of veggie
in my dish though, so the volume
of my clip-top jar (Kilner and Tala
make loads of them) is more like
700ml. Just be careful of the amount
of boiling water you add if you use a
bigger jar; it’s easy to add too much
and over-dilute your soup.
All in all...
...I love these because I still get a fairly
balanced meal that doesn’t skimp on
the convenience, and forces me to get
creative while “thinking inside the
pot”. Over to you guys now!

