42 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
23.01.2015
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Chris Richardson ditches the beaches and heads for the hills
Up in Ubud: Dabbling the delights in
Bali’s undisputed cultural capital
Bali: the four letters roll
eloquently off the tongue, and
immediately conjure up images
of beautiful beaches, bronze bods, and
bottled Bintang. But a stone’s throw
– literally one hour by shuttle bus –
into the island’s core teleports you
to a different kind of paradise: the
kind that featured heavily in Eat Pray
Love, and the kind that continuously
captures the imagination of yogis and
chill-seekers from across the globe.
And with its seas of green, cooler
climates, and cultural delights, it’s
easy to see why. Welcome to Ubud.
There’s much to be said for Balinese
culture; the rich history, exquisite
cuisine, and warm hospitality are
all internationally renowned. They
certainly set Bali aside from other
obvious tropical holiday destinations,
and help attract repeat visitors in
their droves year-on-year. With
that in mind, Ubud is undoubtedly
the island’s cultural capital – a far
cry from scruffy Kuta and trendier
Seminyak in South Bali – and is thus
the obvious location in which to
explore the island’s cultural offerings.
Sights and attractions are dotted
over a large distance in the town and
surrounding villages, and given the
lack of resident metered taxis the ojek
(motorcycle taxi) rates are heavily
inflated. So when you arrive, the first
thing you’ll want to do is source a
moped, which your accommodation
will be more than happy to help
you with. This should set you back
around £3 per day, and is the perfect
mode of transportation for getting
lost in Ubud’s beautiful countryside,
or stopping to check out whatever
local art studio catches your eye.
Furthermore, the area doesn’t have
the usual reputation for bribe-thirsty
police officers looking to extort cash
from innocent tourists, so you should
be able to explore unmolested.
Once you’ve dumped your bags
and sorted a ride, Ubud’s your oyster.
Fill the sunlit hours with the area’s
outdoor sights. Start off your day with
a morning stroll along Campuhan
Ridge, a beautiful and relatively-
chilled hike that stalks two rivers
which eventually converge. This is
the infamous spot where a Javanese
priest once sat and meditated before
deciding to construct a temple,
around which the main town was first
developed. The short walk concludes
in a small village hosting several art
studios offering more unique wares to
what you’ll find in town, and at much
better rates. You should also take a
trip up to the Tegalalang rice terraces,
which offer spectacular views of palm
trees set against an epic backdrop
of staggered rice terraces. Here it’s
possible to take a tour or just amble
through the paddies at your own pace.
No trip to Ubud would be complete
without the obligatory visit to the
Sacred Monkey Forest Sanctuary, a
nature reserve and temple complex
that’s home to countless long-tailed
macaques. Don’t let the ‘Sacred’ or
‘Sanctuary’ in the name fool you: I
think of this more as chaos among
tranquillity. While the temples
and forest are certainly serene, any
attempt at a peaceful walk is almost
always interrupted by one of the
four tribes of monkeys on regular
patrol. Attacks occur daily, as a quick
YouTube search will attest, and many
of the monkeys are chock full of
herpes B virus. Why parents let their
young children feed the monkeys
bananas is totally beyond me, but
I guess this is just Darwin’s theory
at work. On a related note, simian
obesity in the forest has now reached
epic proportions. It certainly is a
spectacle; go and check it out, but be
sure to keep any valuables secured.
Moving away from activities
requiring zealous physical exertion,
Ubud has a seemingly endless supply
of galleries to keep you entertained.
Your best bet is to amble through
the side streets and see what you
stumble across. Of note, the Agung
Rai Museum of Art has an impressive
collection of Walter Spies’ works,
while the Neka Art Museum will
take you on a journey through the
development of Balinese artistic
styles. Traditional Balinese dance
shows can be found from a multitude
of companies every night of the
week; these are the perfect blend of
costumes, choreography, and comedy,
backed by the sweet sounds of
Balinese gamelan. Obviously, yoga is
one of the star attractions in Ubud; if
you’re that way inclined, you’ve come
to the right place. Competition is
fierce, keeping prices reasonable and
quality high; your best bet is to find
out the situation on the ground once
you arrive.
So that’s Ubud in a nutshell. These
are, of course, just the highlights.
There’s many a hidden gem to be
found, especially if you’re feeling
adventurous. I’d also say that the
rainy season is somewhat underrated;
the area is a lot less crowded, room
rates are remarkably lower, and the
rain itself is a minor inconvenience.
Oh, and the rainy season coincides
perfectly with the Christmas break
and end-of-exams. For me it was
a true highlight of Indonesia, and
a destination I’d strongly suggest
making a focal point of your next
holiday agenda.
Your luxury retreat in the hills. Photo: Chris Richardson
"There’s
many a
hidden
gem to be
found."
"Amori
Villa is
nothing
short of
stunning."
Amori Villa
With seven gorgeous suites and
villas set around a luscious infinity
pool that cuts dramatically into a
plush forest, this boutique resort is
luxury at its finest. Carefully crafted
to provide breath-taking panoramic
views of the surrounding valley,
accompanied by the soothing sounds
of the river below, it’s no surprise
that this paradise is a TripAdvisor
Travellers’ Choice 2014 Winner. And
given it’s the brainchild of a couple
well-versed in world travel you can
rest assured that attention has been
paid to the smallest of details.
The team of butlers provide
outstanding personal service, whilst
the chefs prepare a wonderful
selection of local and international
fare at bargain prices. The infinity
pool is the perfect place to unwind
after a stroll through the rice paddies,
before retiring for a massage or
Jacuzzi session. Individual villas
can be booked but I’d recommend
banding together and booking out
the entire retreat; during my recent
visit I ran into a group of young
professionals who’d done just that
for an extended weekend and seemed
to have had the best time. Look no
further for somewhere to unwind for
holiday bliss: Amori Villa is nothing
short of stunning.
Find out more at amorivilla.com.

