THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 45
23.01.2015
FELIX
CANCER
VIRGO
This week, after returning
from home, you decide to be a
real adult and try to properly
cook a meal; however you
use a non-EU-regulated rice
cooker, thereby burning
your entire hall down and
killing hundreds. You take
consolation in the fact that
Evelyn Gardens is getting sold
next year.
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
This week, after being rejected
by another prospective partner
you go home to masturbate
to their Facebook pictures;
however you realize that the
comfort of home has made you
far too complacent, leading
you to forget that you have a
roommate. Now you can no
longer look them in the eye.
This week, your New Year’s
resolution is to be more
charitable in spirit, so you
decide to join the Kenyan
orphan charity society’s Give
It A Go taster session. You
leave disappointed and write
a letter of complaint to Abi
at the student union that no
Kenyan orphans were given
away whatsoever.
This week, due to Imperial
Housing not understanding
the concept of when student
loans come in, you can’t afford
to pay your halls rent and are
subsequently evicted. You now
live in the library, washing in
the sinks and living exclusively
off jacket potatoes. At least
now you can tell your parents
you’re studying hard.
Thisweek,whilerevisingfor
yourJanuaryexams,youdaze
offandcometothesudden
realizationthatasaSeptember
baby,yourparentsalmost
definitelyconceivedyouonNew
Year’sEveandasaresultyou
can’tgettheimageoutofyour
head,causingyoutofailyour
exam.
Thisweek,withgreatoptimism,
youpurchaseanorgyticket;
howeveryouuseyourrealname,
whichtheorgymasterpublishes
onFacebookonceherealizes
thatonlyfourguysaregoingto
signup.Youcoincidentallylearn
alessonabouthavingfamilyon
Facebook,andthatyourmother
isverydisappointedinyouandis
prayingforyoursoul.
This week you accidentally
leave your phone lying around
your friends, and now you’ve
been signed up for dwarf
dating. You’ve already had
multiple invitations from a
Spanish dwarf named Jorge,
who shares a disturbingly
similar amount of interests as
you. Ehh go for it – you’ll get a
free meal out of it!
This week you decide to run
for Union President, but
your Imperial Secret about
wanking in the library toilets
gets linked back to you. The
resulting scandal forces you to
withdraw from the candidates,
as well as losing some favor
with the librarians. Luckily
this behavior is encouraged if
you want to be the Felix editor.
This week you realize that
posting your problems on
Imperial Secrets is not the
best platform for constructive
criticism or a resolution to
your problem. It appears
your foot fetish is something
you are going to have to deal
with by yourself, maybe with
some intensive electro-shock
therapy.
This week, after many months
of awkward flirting with a
hall senior, you decide to
get drunk and ask them out.
You accidentally drink far
too much, changing your
plan to lying naked on their
bed waiting for them. You
also discover that university
life is quite difficult with a
restraining order.
This week you decide to go
the dubiously themed orgy;
however whilst traveling by
bus to get to the hotel, you fail
to consider the consequences
of wearing your costume in.
Luckily Salman Rushdie lives
nearby imperial so it looks
like you’ll be roommates for a
while until it blows over.
This week, after revising for 14
hours in a row, you realize that
you no longer enjoy anything
about your subject and leave
to become a fisherman.
Unfortunately your Physics,
Further Maths, and Latin A
levels in no way prepared you
for the real world and you are
eaten alive by trout.
Friday 16th January
Despite waking up with a massive hangover today, I ended up drinking again as
hall mates said the American girls are here! Apparently for one term all these
tipsy girls show up at the Union and triples the amount of actual ladies in the
building. They are all our age but have never drank before, being under 21 and
all.
They reckon it may help me get over Dorothy, and it kind of did, as I met a girl
there who apparently found my accent charming, even if I do have a sort lisp.
She asked me things like if I knew Prince Harry, and I dunno if she was joking
but I said I did and she went crazy. We exchanged “cell numbers” and we are
going out tomorrow.
That two years of speech therapy was money down the drain. I should have used
it to go on a gap year instead.
Saturday 17th January
I had the oddest date with American Girl today. She wanted a tour of London so I
took her to M & M world and then she wanted to go “proper, UK, clubbing” so I
took her to Piccadilly Institute.
It cost me £40 for us both to get in, a further £15 for two tequila shots and then
I had to pay about £2 in change to the woman in the toilet as I needed gum, just
in case she fancied making out.
She must have spent so much more money than me on drinks though as she
passed out really early on, in some leather seated booth, one fake eyelash askew.
She had lost one of her massive platform shoes too.
I managed to get her in a taxi and take her back to halls, except then I
remembered she doesn’t even go here so have no idea where she lives… she’s
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
Diary Of A Fresher aged 18 3/4
now slumped on my bed, snoring.
Am writing this from my bedroom floor and using a torch. Roommate is pissed.
Sunday 18th January
American Girl spent all day in corridor toilets puking. I managed to get a bit of chit chat in
with her through the door, but people kept coming and going so it made it a bit awkward.
She seems nice though, and I think she asked me out again although it was hard to make
her words out through the retching.
Monday 19th January
Back to lectures. Realised I know nothing. Spent evening in library staring at blank page.
Searched UCAS deadlines again, just in case.
Tuesday 20th January
In labs today we were messing with some drosophila larvae in banana paste, and my labmate
kept pressuring me to eat it for a vine video. I gave in and swallowed a spoonful just as
the lecturer walked behind me, and I vomited the paste and my SAF Café breakfast onto
his shoes.
Wednesday 21st January
Posted my horrific lab experience on Imperial Secrets.
It got 42 likes.
Thursday 22nd January
American Girl texted me and she wants to go on a date on one of those tour buses. Might
just put her at the top of the number 9, and go around a few times as it will be so much
cheaper, since I spent all my food money for the month in Piccadilly Institute.

