8 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
23.01.2015
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial students attempt to organise a “Jihad
themed” orgy through Secrets Facebook page
More highbrow reporting from Felix as Philippa Skett finds out just
what the hell went on
Imperial Secrets has lent itself as
a platform to a lot of odd posts,
but one took a bizarre turn when
it resulted in emails being sent to
students inviting them to a “Jihad
themed” orgy.
A post made on the page last week
included an online survey asking
people to sign up for the orgy. The
survey asked students where it should
take place, attendee eligibility, and for
potential theme suggestions.
Over 200 people replied to the
survey. The gender split of those that
replied was reflective of the Imperial
ratio as a whole.
Subsequent comments promoting
the survey on the Imperial Secrets
post was made by a fake profile,
named “The-Orgy Master.” The
profile photo was a rather erotic snap
of what appeared to be an eastern
Asian family in their underwear,
potentially taken in the eighties.
The Facebook profile, and the
survey asking people to take part in an
orgy, were managed by four first-year
students of Imperial. The students
are a mixture of males and females
from the chemistry and engineering
departments, but they are unaware of
who runs Imperial Secrets.
They spoke to Felix about the stunt,
and why they did it. “On seeing the
Imperial Secrets page we saw there
was a high demand of students with
frustrated sexual needs.”
“At first it was just a joke but after
seeing 200 people sign up to the event
we thought it might be interesting to
see if people would buy tickets, 4 of
whom did.”
Students who signed up through
the survey were sent a confirmation
email from imperialorgy@gmail.
com, which is jointly run by the four
students. The email stated that the
theme of the orgy would be “JIHAD.”
It also informed them that tickets
would be below £15 and would cover
the costs of a hotel room, condoms,
masks and alcohol.
The email also requested that people
send photos “for judgement NOW,” to
decide on who could take part. It went
on to gallantly state that “judgement
of girls will be very lenient but still
send a picture!”, though the authors
were also generous enough to offer
free tickets to those that send in
“female jihad costume pictures”.
The students told us that the “Jihad”
theme was not the only preference
cited by those that filled in their
form. They said to Felix: “Many [of
the themes suggested] were worse
than jihadi. We just found that one
humorous - plus we don’t stand for
terrorism so why not ridicule it?”
The students told us other themes
suggested via the online survey
included, but were not limited to,
Hitler, a Children’s party, S&M,
Teletubbies and, the most Imperial-
sounding of them all, one based
on the Periodic Table of elements.
Apparently those who are lonely
could have attended as “one of the
noble gases.”
The fake Facebook profile later
confirmed that “four people had
purchased tickets,” and stated the
names of the students in full. These
were taken down a few days later,
although were publically viewable
for anyone who clicked on the profile
through the Imperial Secrets page,
currently approaching 3,000 likes.
Felix contacted the students
named as ticket buyers, and those
that replied said they were unhappy
being named in full on such a public
profile. The students have also said
that as far as they are aware, no
money has changed hands. Some told
us that they were just signed up by
friends as a joke.
However two were particularly
upset, as they didn’t think their
names would be made so public. Said
one: “I am frankly annoyed that any
information was released. It’s really
not okay to do this kind of thing.”
The students behind the page said
they were sorry for publishing the
names, and “As a group [we] apologise
deeply for any harassment or abuse
that may have ensured.”
The final question is, will the orgy
be taking place? Sadly it seems, it will
not. Concluded the four students
behind the stunt: “Logistics would
have been too difficult.”
Back to the drawing board then.
Main Photo: The final confirmation sent that first mentioned the "Jihad" theme. Other Photos (Clockwise): The first half of the form to sign up; The
original post on the Secrets page; The Welcome page on the form; A running count from "The-Orgy Master; The second half of the form

