simon baker
'Welcome to Imperial
College, London. The only
college that is ahead of cur-
rent thinking.' Such was the
greeting from the security
guard as the faithful * f c
entered the Centra
Library last week. Since
9:30 is too early for satire or strong drink, it must
be true. This, together with the frenzied bell-
ringing at chucking out time- putting the campus
into campanology - illustrates the strange effect
this building has on the boys in grey. I put it down
to all the dust on the books, but it made me
laugh so it's fine by me. And no more references
to Dad's Army, I promise.
As regular readers oi this column will know,
I like to go on holiday in the first week of term
just as you, the punters, return. The shifty bloke
around IC this week who bears an uncanny
resemblance to me is a paid double in to sit a
couple oi exams. Newspapers take a little while
to reach the Caribbean, so this week will be a tad
less topical than usual. Beiore I went, I did grab
a copy oi that thunderer oi the press IC Reporter
and saw that Silwood's chef has just won an
award. Brilliant, but why confine the man's tal-
ents to the sticks? I know you'll find this hard to
believe, but some people ieel that College
Catering is not quite as good as it should be, so
let's get him up here. l i he can, for example, sort
out, the Linstead meals, he'll get more than a
Good Heart Beat Award for Excellence. He'll
get a knighthood.
1 have on numerous occasions criticised the
good folk oi College Estates over the catastrophe
that is the Biomedical
Sciences Building, yet when
the Chemistry lecture the-
atres finally succumbed a
few weeks ago, it was a very
poignant, moving moment
when I saw my first
encounter with the non-alco-
holic aspects of IC reduced
to rubble. You see, Ian Caldwell, I'm a big softie
at heart.
Politically, it is not necessary to have current
newspapers to report accurately the state of play,
as nothing seems to have changed for months.
Tony Blair smiles, John Major dithers and Paddy
Ashdown... well, does it matter? I have, over the
past few months, put a brave face on the fate of
the Government at the next election, but even
I'm resigned to the fact that it ain't looking good.
The continuing BSE crisis in particular has
focussed on the inconsistencies that are so dam-
aging, by rrrixing wholly justified attacks on the
baseless intransigence of the EU with subse-
quent backtracking and kowtowing. While it is
good that this issue has stimulated debate on the
present future role of Europe and Britain's place
in it, I suspect it is a discussion that John Major
needs like a hole in the head.
I have just heard from the cocktail waiter
that Imperial won University Challenge, after
progressively more emphatic performances in
the heats. He didn't say whether you managed
to answer any science questions correctly, but so
what, and who cares if the closest IC got to
female representation on the team was someone
whose surname was Totty? That cocky captain of
LSE was ripe for a fall. Good work fellas!
book: the consumers
good chemical guide -
John emsley
Mild is less fattening than Guinness. Lessen the
effect oi your hangover by drinking a glass of full-
fat milk beforehand and have a sweet breakfast
afterwards. If there was ever a famine, chemists
could turn sawdust and paper into high energy"
glucose. Olestra, the non-fattening iat is madfof
high energy sugar. All these iacts and more aie-n
your fingertips ii you read this book by John
Emsley, Imperial's resident science writer and
frequent contributor to New Scientist.
Emsley explores areas oi chemistry which
are seen in a generally negative light by the pub-./
lie. He discusses amongst others iat, dio\ins,
PVC, nitrate, carbon dioxide, alcohol and qifc.-:
ers, trying to dispel the myths that have . uj&eri
public iear. He rightly points out that tbei i
public phobia of the word 'chemical', yet of
course everything around us contains chemicals.
Emsley bashes environmentalists through-
out the book, but trips over himself; "[the envi-
ronmentalists] use phrases like 'it is believed
that'; speaking the language oi doubt wfe|fi
appearing to be sure" - but Emsley uses the same
all it can to global w arming and is realty a spent
force". (He is not afraid to be contentious!) As I
progressed through the took, other problems
v ith liis arguments cropped up Enisfev states
that metal salts leach hum l'VC, wbn humid be
used to wrap looct He asKs|CovJd these salts
contkiunate the food'3
No, because the amounts
\\fhich |nj|p'ate pre insignificant". Yet they aic
leltcfrmg and contan)inattng'thc iood to a small
eltent Here.Emsley seems anogant, confeermng
the jjetceptifm of chemists » uncaring about
pubic emoti#ns ancfiocusedoaiv on the statisti-
cal evidence ^--which ne-'isftrying'to dispel. Ele
. . . . . .
iar more good Uian h a r ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
. :'| • • • IS
grippingtban otlu •
! , btitcfieirfa! substances are
well indexed throughout the text and the writ-
ing style imakes the book accessible by anyone
(although harder work ll you do not have a
chemical background). Lend it to your non-sci-
. ; . ,::: l.s .
imfgfW': I * | ?M-t$$l im; |; '\•< a ••.v
>
i
si l l l f 1111
~B>S:S.lll:iV A, • • AJAAi
^ : l ^ ^ | | • ; • • ' ^ | ; ^ ; ^ ^ .

