H a l f L i v e s , >in *ght°
R u i n e d L i v e s
On April 26th, 1986 at 123am, a huge explosion in Reactor 4 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Station in the Soviet Union
marked the advent of what was to be the worlds worst nuclear disaster. "What happened", inquired a confused senior oper-
ator shortly afterwards in the units control room. "I seem to remember you saying that the chance of an accident was one in
ten million", he continued. "Yes", confirmed a fellow operator, "and this seems to be it." Carlo Massarella reports.
entists claim the health of those
affected by the blast will suffer
"for generations, practically forev-
er." It was announced last week
that the children of parents
exposed to Chernobyl's fallout
have twice the number of genetic
mutations as British Children.
Psychological studies of affected
parties indicates high stress levels
- a factor linked to increased cases
of depression, high blood pres-
sure, and alcoholism. Cases of
thyroid cancer in children and
adolescents in the Ukraine and
neighbouring Belarus have
increased 1000 fold.
Today, an eerie wind of silence
sweeps through the 30km exclu-
sion zone around the concrete sar-
cophagus which conceals the
remnants of horrific disaster. The
power station, hailed in February
1986 as a 'model of safety', still
employs 5,000 people to oversee
the mnning of its two functioning
Crumbling - Chernobyl's sarcophagus encases 30 r e a c t Q r s R e s e a r c h - c h e m o b j
tonnes of radioactive dust. . . . , ,
has been cut back. 1 he sarcopha-
in a mound of conflicting statistics. Chernobyl gus containing 30 tonnes of radioactive dust con-
and its casualties became the victims of clashing tinues to crumble. Experts monitoring its state
political agendas with events being consumed by predict a 'radioactive dust disaster' will occur in
copious information protection agencies of the the next 20 years. Soviet authorities claim $4bil-
former Soviet Union and the Western world. lion is needed to close down the station and 're-
For those living in the aftermath, house' the disabled reactor. So far, the Western
Chernobyl's legacy is all to apparent. Russian sci- world has not been forthcoming with the funds.
The Experiment ThatWentWrong
T
he explosion had dislodged the 2,000
tonne reactor lid. Fuel rods and
graphite blocks were spat out of the
core and a plume of radioactive dust began to
form over the devastated site. The force of
the blast shunted the reactor base down four
meters. Hot nuclear fuel combined with the
sand released from the reactors encasement
to form a molten lava that burrowed its way
through the floors below.
Immediate effort was channelled into extin-
guishing the inferno and to determine whether a
fatal self-sustaining chain reaction might occur.
Site workers hastily made sand bags to add to
pilots' bombing artillery oi boron and lead in
what was to be a futile attempt to quell the
flames. Fireman fought the flames heroically -
wearing standard uniform, their boots melted in
the intense heat while their bodies became
infected with 'Chernobyl AIDS'. Engineers at
the Chernobyl site continued unabated in the
construction of reactors 5 and 6, while the chil-
dren of Prypiat just 3km away played on.
While the battle against the blast raged,
another desperate fight commenced. This time
the rules on engagement were not the contain-
ment of radiation but the concealment of infor-
mation. What shocked the world most was the
complacency of the people involved. A tight veil
of secrecy was hand-crafted by Soviet officials in
an attempt to shield the world, including
President Gorbachev, from the horrors that had
occurred. Incredibly, it was almost 3 days later,
1,000 miles north of Chernobyl, that details of
a nuclear incident became apparent. A worker
clocking-off at Fosmark Nuclear Power Station
in Sweden sparked initial concerns when his
clothes registered higher than normal radiation
readings. Senior operators immediately feared a
leak at their plant. But before a discharge was
located, Swedish meteorological centres identi-
fied airborne radioactive particles. Three
Government agencies in Moscow denied allega-
tions of a disaster. Only that evening did the
Russian news agency, Tass release a brief state-
ment confirming an 'accident' had indeed
occurred.
After the accident, over 500,000 people
assisted in an 8 month clean-up and entombing
operation. Constructing the concrete coffin gave
half of these people a whole life-
time's recommended dose of radia- wjr-*|
tion. The incident became entangled .^m. JL
pounded with an inadequate, shutdown sys-
tems, KMBK. reactors like the one at
Chernobyl rely on pressurised water as a
coolant This means that inside the reactor,
steam is produced which can accumulate, into
pockets (.-ailed voids. The problem with pre-
Chemobyl KMBKs was that iftoo many voids
'appeared in the reactor, the power generation
could increase rapidly because steam absorbs
less" neutrons than water does. In normal oper-
ation this cannot 'occur and die reactor is stable.
However, ifthe rxwer generation falls helcv. a
certain threshold, tliereactioncan get out of
tors of inN potential danger, ironically, on die
/.-•.;-: :'),.;':•/•; : ,; : 'V-V;;
:'..,!;•'.: • p':
- : :
" r- p. •
'-. \X^?'^i::*fr':r
:,:
:.!
'.' s
.
"
•
'
,
-
/
. • ; : V . . : , . C
V; -:V::C,-:^^:':
: f ----- \ . ' '
• !
' • • • : ' : ' . ' • . ' ' ':•'•''-.:- v* ' . .
ipy,v;' .. ' . :
---.C • ' '
> • - •

