EIGHTEEN . FELIX FRIDAY MAY 3RD 1 9 9 6 DIARY
friday
3
may
Amateur Radio Society (HamSoc)
lpm. Meeting in the shack. Top floor of
union building. (R)
Rag Meeting
1.10pm Ents Lounge. (R)
Pakistan Society
3 - 5pm. Basketball, union gym. Contact
Kashif, Aero II, k.ahmed@ae.ic.ac.uk for
more information. (R)
Wing Chun Kung Fu
5-7pm. Union G y m , 2nd Floor I C U .
Beginners welcome. 1 st lesson free. (R)
Fitness Club
5.30pm. Advanced Step Aerobics. Southside
Gym. (R)
Ents
City & Guilds Carnival. Live music from My
Life Story, Fold, and Zuduwah, plus Casino,
ball pool and pole joust, Chill-out room, Pop
Tarts and lam bar. £5 all profits to rag.
Tickets from Union Office or on door.
Free minibus service
Bus service leaves from in front of the union,
taking lone female students home to any-
where in central London. First run midnight,
last run 2am. See Beit Security for times.
(R)
f r i d a y
fleadh festival
Saturday June 8th
Do you want to earn some money, whilst
attending one of the country's top music
events?
Between 50 and 100 programme sellers
are required for the Fleadh Festival. For
more details, contact Mark on 48068,
m.horne@ic.ac.uk or in the Union Office.
Saturday
4
may
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield. For more infor-
mation contact gliding@ic.ac.uk. Come to
Thursday meeting first. (R)
S a t u r d a y
sailing club
spring sail
Port Solent, on the last Monday of March:
sixteen Yacht Club members are ready to
yield to the call of the sea. Ian and Jeremy
were skippering two 36 foot boats with the
most international crews they probably ever
had. There were British, French, German,
Italian, Japanese, Norwegian, and Spanish
folks.
The two vessels, Romeo and Juliet, did
not escape the fate of their names and divert-
ed their course from the very first day. The
adventurous Romeo set off for France while
Juliet chose to take advantage of the easterly
wind and go west. As the night came, the fog
thickened and the wind dropped; just about
the worst conditions for sailing. To keep
going we decided to split into two watch
teams.
Dealing with the lack of wind and visi-
bility was pretty much a matter of staying
warm and awake. Meantime, sounding the
fog horn to make sure other vessels noticed
us did not precisely match Ian's musical
taste. The tiny light hanging around the mast
kept projecting twisted shadows onto the fog
curtain, thus making the scene even more
surreal.
The lapping of the sea on the hull, the
long "toot" from passing cargoes and the
intermittent messages on the V H F radio
were our only links to the outside world. As
the first watch team went to bed for the
third time that night, the wind suddenly
picked up. We reached Torquay in the morn-
ing with some worries about the engine, but
it did not resist Greg's inspection. We went
for a nice meal before setting off again to the
nearby harbour of Dartmouth.
The week passed surprisingly quickly.
We managed to reach Salcombe on
Wednesday evening. Back toward the east,
the sunny day was as enjoyable as the steady
westerly wind that led us to Weymouth, a
quiet place really. But Juliet will rather
remember it for its bakery around a street
corner. The next day, on the way to Poole,
we nearly lost our cook. He had managed to
climb up the mast! And that was not all.
After the radio betrayed Romeo's return,
Juliet met him up on his balcony at Poole
harbour. This eventful trip finally ended in
Cowes on Saturday night, where Simon cel-
ebrated his birthday in the local pubs.
With a bit of tan and a persistent feeling
of rocking, we came back to Port Solent on
Sunday, already considering the next trip.
sunday
5
may
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield. For more infor-
mation contact gliding@ic.ac.uk. Come to
Thursday meeting first. (R)
Wa rgames
lpm. Table Tennis room. (R)
Fitness Club
2pm. Southside Gym. Intermediate aero-
bics. (R)
Ents
Da Vinci's. Standing Room Only. Coverage
of Newcastle & Man Utd's last premiership
games of the season live on the big screen.
Bar from lpm.
s u n d a y
ents
I'm sure you're all dead keen to know what
we (well, I say we, but the hardworking crew
have all buggered off on holiday and left me
on my own!) in the Ents Office have been
sorting out whilst you've been away.
Well, most of the usual events stay the
same, although Wednesday nights will be fin-
ishing at midnight for the rest of this term, so
as not to distract you from the serious busi-
ness of your exams. We may also be tinker-
ing with the odd one-off on a Wednesday
night as well, so keep your eyes open.
For Friday nights we'll be staying open
'til 2am with a mixed bag of old faves and
total one-offs, plus we hope the chill-out
room will become a permanent feature -
watch Out for posters! But as a taster, during
the term there'll be more comedy, another
College Band night, a Beach Party, two visits
to "Hedonizm", "Shaft", "Pop Tarts", a reg-
gae based night, and it's all going to be
topped off on June 28th with the best
Carnival of the year. We've got a couple of
up and coming guest DJs, a tarot reader, per-
cussionists, more live techno, the return of
the seven colour laser, a full-on reggae sound
system, a girl-led indie band who make
Sleeper look like the New Seekers, and bril-
liant decor throughout the building already
sorted, and possibly an orchestra and other
summery specials and freebies to be con-
firmed. I promise it'll be the best way to end
your year, so if you weren't planning to stick
around, change your plans now!
It all starts tonight with the C & G
Carnival with live music from My Life Story,
Fold and Zuduwah, a charity casino, chill-out
room, Pop Tarts DJs and inflatables. Tickets
are £5, available on the door.
Finally, I know it's a busy term but if any
of you have any feelings about how this
year's Ents has been, or things you'd like to
see changed for next year, you can e-mail me
on m.horne@ic.ac.uk.
Have a good term, we'll be doing our
best to help you enjoy at least some of it!

