TWENTY . FELIX FRIDAY MAY 3RD 1 9 9 6 DIARY
thursday
9
may
Fitness Club
12.30pm. Die Hard circuit training
5.30pm. Beginners aerobics.
Southside Gym. (R)
ConSoc
lpm. Southside Upper Lounge. http://-
www.su .ic.uk/clubs/societies/sec/consoc-
/home.html (R)
Gliding Club
1pm. Aeronautics 266. (R)
Mountaineering Club
7pm. Social meeting in Southside Upper
Lounge. (R)
Yoga Soc
6.15 - 7.45pm. Table tennis room. Beginners'
Kunalini yoga class. More information from
mpn@doc.ic.ac.uk, ex 48237. (R)
Christian Union
6.30 - 7.45pm. W 2 in Biology. (R)
ICCAG
8.15pm. Weeks Hall basement. Soup run for
the homeless. (R)
Skate Soc
Night skate - all welcome. Contact Alex on
0171 352 9111 or a.cinelli@ic.ac.uk for
more details. (R)
YHA
lpm Southside Lounge. "Take a walk on the
wild side." (R)
Ents
Cocktail Night at Da Vinci's. Forget it all in
an instant! The best way to celebrate finish-
ing your exams, or just the fact that it's
Thursday. It might not be quite as good as
real sex on the beach, but makes for a pretty
good substitute.
t h u r s d a y
friday
l O
may
Amateur Radio Society (HamSoc)
lpm. Meeting in the shack, top floor of
union building. (R)
Rag Meeting
1.1 Opm Ents Lounge. (R)
Pakistan Society
3 - 5pm. Basketball, union gym. Contact
Kashif, Aero II, k.ahmed@ae.ic.ac.uk. (R)
Wing Chun Kung Fu
5-7pm. Union Gym, 2nd floor I C U . 1st les-
son free. (R)
Fitness Club
5.30pm. Advanced step aerobics. Southside
gym. (R)
Free minibus service
Leaves from the union, taking lone female
students home to anywhere in central
London. First run midnight, last run 2am.
(R)
f r i d a y
For the last three years you thought college
was something a bit special but now you
know that if you can just make it through
finals, an even more fabulous life lies before
you: an orgy of fun, freedom, fame, wealth
and success.
OK, so its a bit over the top. Still, even if
finals pressure hasn't sent you spinning off
into deranged fantasy, with so much to look
forward to why is the news all so gloomy?
Unemployed or in a dead end job, defaulting
on loan repayments, losing touch with friends
and forced to live at home again, this is the
image so often portrayed of Graduate life.
Whatever may be waiting for you on the
other side, however, there are certain things
you can still rely on. One of these is the
University of London Union (ULU). By
Joining as a Graduate member you can still
enjoy all that U L U had to offer you as a stu-
dent. You get access to the fitness centre,
swimming pool, sauna, treatments, classes
and other sports facilities; use of the bars,
restaurants, stationary and sports shops, all of
which charge student prices; confidential
advice from the welfare unit; and the chance
to join any of ULU's varied societies and
sports clubs. With the return of U L U as a
major gig venue, the U L U ticket shop is by
far the cheapest place in London to buy tick-
ets.
The Graduate Society isn't just a mem-
bership scheme for ex-students though, it's
also a social society established to address the
particular needs of its Graduate members.
The "GradSoc" newsletter produced twice a
year, contains relevant news, information on
members, a graduate careers section, fea-
tures, articles and an international section.
Subwarden
A subwarden position is now available in
Holbein / Willis Jackson Hall in Evelyn
Gardens. Please contact the Warden,
Rowland Travis, in Mechanical Engineering
515, extension 47090, e-mail r.travis@ic for
more details. Closing date 13th May.
Homework Assistant
Required for homework supervision for chil-
dren aged 12 and 13, weekdays between 5 -
7 pm. Will entertain only college students,
and the applicant should have good English.
£8 per hour. Please contact 0171 584 5842
between 8 - 9 pm weekdays.
afro-carib soc
Annual Dinner May 10th: Drink wine, dine
on delicious African Caribbean cuisine, be
entertained by the tropical sounds of the
Ebony Steelband, then boogie on down to
the latest in Soul, R&B, Ragga, Jungle, Hi-life
and Soca.
It's the formal black tie dinner event of
the year, for the bargain price of a tenner for
members, £12.50 for non-members, and £5
for the dance only. Contact Audrey at
annal@ic or ext. 52724 for more details.
Even if you move away the newsletter can
help you to stay in touch with university news
and issues of interest to you.
If you are intending to stay resident in or
around London, you'll also be able to enjoy
the events on offer. Winetastings, theatre
trips, a day out in Kew Gardens, a comedy
evening and speakers on UFO's and pagan
religion were amongst the events organised in
the last year or so.
As part of the commitment to provide
the practical support which graduates need,
now more than ever before, networking and
careers events are currently being planned,
while suggestions for other possible graduate
services are also being considered.
Finally, and most importantly, the
Graduate Society encourages involvement.
All contributions to the production of the
newsletter are enthusiastically received,
while administrative and financial support is
available for any member keen to host a par-
ticular event. Members are also encouraged
to join the steering committee or to simply go
along to meetings and join in.
So don't listen to the pessimists and
alarmists. Step confidently into Graduate life
with the security that U L U will always be
there for you.
The very best of luck for exams and the
rest of your life.
Membership of the U L U Graduate
Society costs just £10 per year (£12.50 E U ,
£15.00 rest of the world) and is open to all
ex-London students. Watch out for the appli-
cation form with your degree certificate, pick
one up from reception, U L U , Malet Street,
London or phone the Graduate Society office
on 0171 580 9551 x239
ULU Graduate Society

