FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 3RD MAY 1 9 9 5 . FIVE
In the tradition of suicide notes the world over,
by the time you read this article I shall be some-
where far away. Goodbye cruel world...
Well not quite. I may be heading to a dark
and foreboding place, but on closer inspection
that turns out to be Sunderland, not Hades. Not
an obvious distinction, I might add, but a crucial
one. Are you sitting comfortably? Then we can
begin...
(Swirly special flashback-type effects...)
When I decided to start my degree in
Aeronautical Engineering - I'll admit it - I was
drunk. There were a few places left on the old
UCAS form, so I thought: "Why not? I always
wanted to be a spaceman." Thus a fabulous
career was to be born. So why now, six
months down the winding track that is
this country's educational system, am I
writing an article on getting out?
The answer is that I have done. Read
that again and you'll get it. Due to various
factors I came to the decision that being
an Aeronautical Engineer was just not for
me. The first person I contacted was an
old friend who'd been through a similar
experience whilst reading Applied Physics
at Durham. We chatted for quite a while,
and I was given confidence that I was not H
front, I had some great friendships developing,
things was going well with the newspaper and
my radio show was gaining notoriety, if not pop-
ularity: why worry about my poxy little course?
That would sort itself out, surely. Pass the Stoli,
thank you very much.
Of course, when you're doing the most
exacting degree in Europe, things are fairly
unlikely to sort themselves out.
This realised, I leapt into panic mode,
working unheard of hours to try and get back on
target. Throwing myself into the maelstrom that
is an Aero student's Easter break, I rapidly had
my worst fears confirmed, that I was a) unable
and b) unwilling to complete the course.
alone. The testosterone dominated atmosphere
of the College encourages few to divulge their
shortcomings, especially those who've had it
academically easy in the past. A big step is
acknowledging that you've made a mistake,
whether that be in your original choice of course
or the amount of work you've put into it.
Mine was a hybrid case; it's challenging to
take on a demanding course that interests you,
likewise, a tiresome subject can be made palat-
able by it being simple to succeed in. However,
when you manage to find yourself on a course as
impossibly difficult as it is mind numbingly
tedious, you should realise you've got problems.
During the Spring Term the merest consid-
eration of leaving College hadn't had the temer-
ity to think about crossing my mind. Things
seemed to be promising on the relationships
Having recovered from the resultant bac-
chanalian blow-out that such realisations often
pre-empt, I looked to my parents for guidance,
and like the best of counsellors, they merely
brought out to the fore what I'd been thinking
all along; to start thinking along the lines of
doing something else.
But what?
"So, what, a day job? Not in this life" was
the first thing to traipse merrily into my con-
sciousness from the pen of Tarantino. But as I
thought about it, what else is there to do?
It is notoriously difficult to take advantage
of one's parents properly if you're hanging
around the house all day. And the only other
way for educated teenagers to make money is by
dealing. After only a few moments hesitation, I
reluctantly opened the weekend's pile of news-
papers and started the joyous task of 'job hunt-
ing' as I believe it is popularly called.
Several hours of the nicest possible tele-
phone voice in recent history later, threatening
much violence to my brother's antiquated
Amiga and its equally ancient printer workmate,
several copies of my appropriately sanitised C V
were winging their wicked way to unsuspecting
companies across the region.
"Yes of course I have extensive clerical
experience," I was heard to claim. "Well moti-
vated? Oh yes, absolutely. Reliable?
Enthusiastic? That goes without saying, sir," I
grovelled, realising for the first time how much
arse-licking really goes on in the strange world of
ignoring people of education, ambition,
*$ intelligence and original thought for those
with a sad devotion to those holding the
pay packets, a world which lauds obscurity
and mediocrity as virtuous, a world that we
risibly call real life.
Yes, that's right, I haven't got a job yet.
Upon my return to London the week
before the start of what was to be my final
term, one quick chat with my Senior Tutor
and it was all over, quite literally in min-
utes. It was ironic that after all the
upheavals and heartache of getting to
Imperial in the first place, never mind the sleep-
less nights debating the issue of quitting, that
the act itself was so transitory. Not so much as a
form to sign. Walking out into the April sunshine
I was left feeling quite, quite lost. I'd talked it
through until I was, if not blue, then a pretty off-
purple in the face. "I'm sure I'm doing the right
thing" I heard my self saying to those I had
sounded out.
Talking it over is one thing. Grasping the
reality once the talking has been done is quite
another.
I would like to apologise for getting all seri-
ous at the end of this article, and also to thank all
those who have made my time here so enjoyable.
You know who you are.
Jonathan Trout.
D o n ' t P a n i c s
Don't bottle it up; tell people
uuhot's on your mind os soon as
possible. Talk to your friends,
family, counsellors, pastoral staff
- it doesn't need to be formal,
and talking about the problem
often gets it into perspective.
Find out your position aiith your
L€R; you may need to pay back
some of your grant, or they may
be nasty to you and not give
you any money ever again.
Liketuise, look into your accom-
modation agreements. Vou may
be liable for forfeit payments if
you don't approach it carefully.
Take plenty of time and advice
to decide your future, as rushing
from one ill suited course into
another would be disheartening
to say the least.
Don't worry about finding some-
thing else to do. The very fact
that you got into Imperial shouus
that you are more than capable
of getting on a course or career
of your choosing.
Make sure you get a bloody
good send off.

