MANIFESTOS
Candidates
for the post of DEPUTY PRESIDENT
of IC
Union
Duncan
BATTY
proposed by George Plumbly
It wasn't until seven years ago that Deputy
President was made a sabbatical post. The
reasons were quite simple, there was a need for
someone to handle the financial side of the
clubs and societies within ICU, and to be
responsible for the upkeep and security of
Union run premises.
The side of the job which has been developed
is that of looking after the Union Building.
Even so there is still a lot of room for
improvement. For example, there has been a
few occasions this year when JCR events have
been closed early by Security, due to a lack of
communication between security and bookings
office. It is details like this that need to be
clarified, which as Deputy President I will be
able to sort out. It is also important for the
Deputy President to be on hand at any time of
the day especially in matters of security. This is
helped if you know most of the security guards
on a personal basis, which I do.
The part of the job which has not been
developed over the years is that of financial
advisor. This, I think, is the more important
part of the DP's work. We have seen this year
how, when faced with cutbacks, the Major
Sub-Committees and the CCUs could not
agree on estimates for next year. As Deputy
President, I will endeavour that estimates will
be within budget before putting them to a full
UFC; Thus eliminating most of the arguments.
Other tasks for the Deputy President are
looking after regalia. As I have helped the last
two RCS HJTs with regalia, I know how to
order and maintain stocks for the Southside
Shop. This is a new side to the job which is still
in its infancy, and new
(cut at 300th word-Ed)
Duncan Batty did not submit a
photograph with his manifesto.
Colin COOPER
proposed by John Ferguson
Why I am ideally suited to the job of ICU
Deputy President
1. As a member of House Committee I have
been involved in running the Union Building
facilities, and as an organiser of many events I
have knowledge of its strengths and weak-
nesses.
2. I have a number of Fresh ideas to
improve Union facilities and open them to a
wider range of students. Expansion of
Southside Shop into a mini supermarket to
reduce prices, improvement of the booking
procedure for Union rooms to make it efficient
and ensure events take place in suitable rooms
regarding noise and damage.
3. Over the last two years I have been a keen
observer of the relationship between the Union
and College, particularly the Bar and
Refectory Committees. I proposed the U G M
motion on Bar Accounts that exposed the dual
loyalties of student representatives, and opened
the management to scrutiny.
College Refectories have been a source of
jokes and election promises for many years.
Management difficulties are the real root of the
problem and I would press for changes to
improve efficiency and so improve the food!
4. I stand for more open administration
rather than clandestine decisions that are
presented as fait accomplis. I shall encourage
open debate.
For example reduction of Union income
must be tackled by informed discussion of
possible economies rather than cloak and
dagger warfare. CCUs and major sub-
committees both have good claim to adequate
funding, but both must be prepared to account
for their expenditure to all.
I stand for a fresh, informed and open
approach.
Christine
TELLER
proposed by David Molesworth
Why will I make a good DP?
I have a wide experience of all aspects of
imperial College Union.
I have organised and participated in many
social events both in the Union Building
outside. I know the building and services
provided, very well, and have worked as non
sabbatical Deputy President for several
months. I have sat on Union Finance
Committee and House Committee for two
years respectively, and have initiated changes
on both, particularly the provision of a sensible
decoration programme and a better allocation
of the equipment fund.
The main disadvantage that a sabbatical
officer faces is the lack of continuity and
knowledge. I am already known and respected
in College and I believe this is the key to
producing real change. Any other policy
simply leads to the Union not being consulted
and consequently being ineffectual. I will press
for an increase in equipment expenditure. This
is the soundest investment ICU can make and I
am the person most capable of effecting this.
I believe that the sporting and club activities
are the heart of Imperial College Union. I will
work to promote the facilities available, and to
improve the efficiency of services within the
Union Building and sources of income such as
games machines and bookings. I am presently
improving the supply of sports goods in the
Southside Shop and I will continue to work to
expand this new venture.
Elect me as the best 'man' for the job.
Page 101 March 4,19831 IFELIX

