MANIFESTOS!
Candidates
for the post of HON. SECRETARY
of IC
Union
Sean DAVIS
proposed by John Passmore
I am proposing Sean Davis for Hon Sec
because I feel he has the qualities to do the job
well. He is not boring, has the organisational
ability to do the basics of the job such as
minute-taking, U G M s , Exec News and
insurance well. However it is important that
the Hon Sec takes a greater part in the running
of the Union as a whole, this is where you can
benefit from electing Sean Davis.
John Passmore
At the moment I have no experience with
Union affairs apart from hearing students say
that the union officers are completely useless
and don't concern themselves with the needs
and interests of the ordinary student. These I
believe ,are played-out cliches. I feel however
that my keenness and motivation will more
than compensate for any lack of knowledge of
the job. The Hon See's job description lists the
mundane and essential parts of the work to be
done. Anyone who is organised and efficient
could do the job, it is what the person elected
does beyond the job description that is
important. Remember that the first three
months of the sabbatical post are from July to
September in which the people elected can
learn the basics.
The Hon Sec should become more involved
in policy decisions and the day to day running
of the union as a whole, such things as finance,
services, major sub-committees and CCUs are
of major importance.
On the main issues concerning the Union my
views are:
NUS: Too expensive and too political.
Refectories: I do not promise to produce five
star restaurants but I will try to improve the
standard of the food.
Accommodation: This is one of the main
problems facing IC students and is one issue on
which a much tougher line is needed.
Sean C Davis
Chas FULLER
proposed by Simon Moore
The Honorary Secretary's job officially entails
two major activities—the administration of IC
Union and its committees and secondly to
'bring to the attention of the Executive
Committee any matters which require a
"political" decision and shall not regard any
"non-administrative" items outside the
Honorary Secretary's sphere of activity'. I have
shown that I can do the former task by my
commitment to RCSU—I have worked as Rag
Treasurer, Honorary Junior Treasurer and this
year as Honorary Secretary—doing anything
from Gestetnering to running elections to
organising dinners. However, I have not
ignored IC Union and I have observed at or sat
on Council, Union Finance, Bookshop and IC
Rag Committees. From attending these
meetings I have gained useful information
Charles Fuller did not submit a
photograph with his manifesto.
which will enable me to play an active role in
the 'non-administrative' part of the job. I
would like to see next year's Sabbatical
Officers trying to improve College-life by
introducing significant changes in the
refectory-system, bars, the Union building and
property, IC Rag and even in the Union
Directory. This can be achieved only by a
concerted effort by each member of the
Executive and not just the President.
There is a third part of the Honorary
Secretary's job which, although not in the
official job description, is very important—a
sabbatical should ensure that he or she is
sociable and approachable. I believe that I am
the best candidate who is standing for
Honorary Secretary not only for the reasons
outlined above but also because I have spent
my time at IC working for the benefit of other
people and not for my own 'political' gain.
I believe that I am the best candidate which
means that YOU will benefit if you vote for me.
Chas Fuller
John SATTAUR
proposed by Mike Mallick
John Sattaur is not a hack!
As most will be able to tell you John is one
of the few people that can be trusted and relied
upon to get on with the job.
Though he has not been directly involved
with the union he has sufficient experience
through SCC and other societies to know what
is going on. In fact he started the Third World
First Society from scratch, drawing up its
constitution and running it successfully.
John does not wish to confine himself simply
to the role of the Hon See's job but also wants
to involve himself in student matters.
Remember it does not need to be just up to the
president what happens here.
John Sattaur's the name,—he's not a hack!
Mike Mallick
The Hon Sec is responsible for the smooth
administration, of the union, and at its most
basic level, it is a low key, hard working job. I
have not been directly involved in the
functioning of the Union. However, I have
shown myself capable of taking on new
responsibilities in setting up Imperial College
Third World First Society, which I consider to
be one of the more active SCC societies. I also
played a large part in organising and
coordinating its Anti-Poverty Action Week
earlier this term.
The fundamentals of the job require
organisation, efficiency and competence. I
would very much like to raise the job above its
basic mundane level, and to try and organise
one or more college-wide events in the same
vein as Human Rights Week.
I consider myself to have the basic qualities
necessary for a good Hon Sec, together with
the will to raise the job to a more active level,
both within the Union, and on a College wide
basis.
If you think so too, why not vote for me on
March 7-8.
FELIXI March 4,1983 Pagell

