Daquise
20 Thurloe Street
(Directly at the bottom of Exhibition
Road)
Open Noon — 11:30pm
Set Lunches Noon — 3:00pm
Despite my perambulations having taken me
past this establishment on countless
occasions, I have never experienced even the
slightest temptation to take matters any
further than a cursory glance at the menu in
the window.
Whether this antipathy was instinctive or
whether it was brought on by the sight of the
drab interior so unashamedly exposed to
public view, is a wholly uninteresting subject
for speculation.
IREVIEWSI
Nevertheless, responding to the call of duty I
finally ventured in, with appetite honed and
notebook at the ready. The initial impression
was encouraging. A genuine Polish restaurant,
the shabbiness punctuated with Polish
ornaments and decorative plates. The
clientele, without exception, were Polish and
Polish is clearly the lingua franca here judging
from the conversations at adjacent tables.
The empathy provoked by all this ethnic
charm survived the starters—Minestrone
(50p) and Hors D'Oeuvres (£1.50) which
consisted of 'soldiers' of ham, cheese and
sausage artistically arranged around a heap of
coleslaw.
Nothing, however survived the main course.
Now, I've eaten Polish food before and
although it is definitely 'different', on previous
occasions the experience was an enjoyable
one. Not, unfortunately, an epitaph appro-
priate to Daquise's Polish Bigos (£2.20). This
dish did nothing to allay my inveterate
suspicion that greasy shredded cabbage and
mashed potatoes are unlikely ever to evoke
involuntary cries of delight and appreciation
from those invited to eat it.
The meatballs in the Kasza (£2.60) had an
unusual flavour, and the peas were actually
quite nice. However, buckwheat, which
covered a large part of the plate must, surely,
be an acquired taste—one whose acquisition
would require great persistence and a high
degree of olfactory anaesthesia. To the
uninitiated the smell evokes images not of
Polish (cuisine) but of polish (can of).
Only a bottle of Tatra, very strong Polish
lager (80p) enabled us to survive the
harrowing main course.
Partial redemption was achieved by the
'Continental Patisseries' (35-60p) which were
palatable though rather dry.
The bill for two came to £9.80 (including
service) leaving us with enough money for a
bag of chips to eat on the way home.
Wilde
Enthusiasm
The Importance of Being Earnest by
Oscar Wilde directed by Peter Hall, the
Lyttelton, National Theatre.
Perhaps no other play in the English
language contains so many well known lines as
The Importance of Being Earnest. Even the
best plays of Shakespeare come lower in the
list. The Irish wit and dramatist Oscar Wilde,
or to give him his full name Oscar Fingal
O'Flahertie Wills Wilde, was the leader of a
new aesthetic cult satirised in Gilbert and
Sullivan's Patience, where he figures as
Bunthorne. But his piece de resistance, The
Importance of Being Earnest, sparkles with so
much original wit and philosophical comment
that literally every other sentence in the
dialogue is a clever aphorism eminently
quotable.
When director Peter Hall read the play three
years ago with a view to staging it at the
National, he came up against this very
problem: it contained almost too many well
known sayings for it to be staged with any
conviction. But, luckily, he changed his mind.
Hall felt that it did have 'a heart', and one that
could speak.
The play is in three acts, and according to
Wilde, 'the first act is ingenious, the second
beautiful and the third abominably clever'. The
plot is slight but very skilful, but the characters
are everything. Algernon Moncrieff (Nigel
Havers) and John Worthing (Martin Jarvis)
are two bachelors madly desirous of two
young ladies, the Hon Gwendolen Fairfax (Zoe
Wanamaker) and Cecily Cardew (Elizabeth
Garvie). To the two ladies, only a man whose
Christian name is Ernest is manageable, and it
Anna Massey and Judi Dench.
is this insistence that leads on to humourous
misunderstandings and the unfolding of the
plot. Two other comic characters feature, an
arm-flailing and excitable Rev Canon Chasuble
(Paul Rogers) and his timid and bashful
admirer Miss Prism (Anna Massey). But by far
the most dominating character (in the most
literal sense) is Lady Bracknell (Judi Dench),
one of the great characters of English
literature. Exuding a manly authority and
strictness her stern gaze sees love and
property as one and the same. Good breeding,
big investments and a bank balance, and
external appearances, to her, make a human a
human. Behind all the witty maxims on life, art
and politics, The Importance of Being Earnest
launches hefty broadsides on the English Upper
Classes and everything they value.
The style of the play is rather like that of
Gilbert and Sullivan. The characters hide their
emotions by their language, and when their
emotions are shown, they are hastily covered
up by a joke. Amongst the philosophy, Oscar
Wilde seems to have a good prod at Germans,
particularly Wagner. When Lady Bracknell
first appears, she makes her arrival known by
an excessively long ring of the oell, at the end
of which the occupier of the abode sighs 'Oh
how Wagnerian!' (On the birth of his first son
Wilde pompously exclaimed, 'The baby is
wonderful—it has a bridge to its nose!—which
the nurse says is a proof of genius! It also has a
superb voice—which it freely exercises: its
style is essentially Wagnerian.') The style is
also very similar to that of Shaw, a veneer of
irresponsibility and triviality beneath which
there is a profound philosophy where-
traditional values are invested and where 'the
self is paramount, ideas shared by Sartre,
Camus and Mann and issuing chiefly from the
'rebel' Nietzsche—a contemporary of Wilde.
Hall's production is blessed by a superb
choice of cast. Martin Jarvis and Nigel Havers,
both excellent, are just eclipsed by Judi Dench
and Anna Massey. Between them the
actresses won five top awards for their parts in
the play. The production pays a meticulous
attention to detail and is so good it's beyond
criticism.
NB: The play finishes at the end of next
month but there is a 'Bargain Night' on
Tuesday March 15 where all seats are £2 £2
payable on the day.
Nick Bedding
Pagel4l March 4,1983 FELIX

