Sense and the
Censor
Looking back over my chequered history of
film reviewing—all six months of it—I notice
that I have very few 'X', or '18' as they are now
certified, films on my files. When I was under
age, ah those dimly remembered far off days, I
seem to remember that all the really good films
were Xs. Perhaps I noticed the X films more
because I couldn't see them, or I thought they
must be good because adults went to see
rhem; perhaps they represented a challenge to
my adolescent instinct to dare and see them
regardless; I don't know—just the impression
persists. What this is all driving at is
speculation on what passes with the censor
these days. Have we moved into a new era of
light and enlightenment? Films like A Mid-
Summers Night Sex Comedy and An Officer
and a Centeleman both contained scenes
which left little to the imagination but failed to
obtain the censors seal of disgust and
degradation. However, two films this week
Cousins in Love and Class of 1984 ;did
manage to achieve the ultimate acolade, and
quite rightly too. The criteria seems to be that
as long as it's good, healthy, normal sex and
not too gory violence (no bloodly headless
torsoes gaily flying about) then it's OK by Lord
Harlech and his merry men.
nmm nice
Seems somewhat dubious logic to me. The
poor old fifteen year old is probably having
enough trouble plucking up the bottle to talk
to the girl at the bus-stop he fancies without
the silver screen taunting him with lovers gaily
setting too to the detriment of the bed springs at
the first sign of mutual interest. Anyway, enough
spacefilling for one week. To say that Cousins
in Love, Cert 18, directed by David Hamilton
playing at the Cinecenta, Panton Street and
Siudio, Oxford Circus was a bit of a bore
woUld not be stretching a point. The plot: well
thej seem to do without one of those. What
:-.K?S up the ninety minutes from the opening
titles to the credits are a series of sexual
encounters of great enthusiasm and varying
expertise and of no real point. Not that there's
anything wrong with a good encounter or two,
but just about everyone screws everybody
REVIEWS
else, except for the poor old professor who
goes around filling ballons with distilled souls
and releasing them. My theory is that he was in
a previous David Hamilton film but failed to
escape from the set in time. Faced with the
tiring business of all that humping again and
deciding that the old ticker just wouldn't take
it, he invented this whole spurious sub-plot for
himself, which has absolutely nothing to do
with the rest of the film, just to keep himself
occupied while the rest of the cast dutifully get
on with the horizontal, or sometimes vertical,
callisthenics. Perhaps the next film will contain
an entire legion of frazzled, exhausted old
eccentrics doing silly things whilst only the real
die-hards get on with the main picture. One of
the characters, Claire, has obviously sussed
that she is in a low budget porno-flick and
spends most of the picture straightening out
hem-lines and plucking out unwanted body
hairs. Normally a futile exercise but not nearly
as futile as trie rest of the film. Perhaps there's
something badly wrong with me; perhaps I
should phone Claire Raynor to find out why I
don't find ninety minutes of beautiful people
making love in sun-bathed rustic settings
erotic and gripping; why couldn't I empathise
with Julien who only gets the chance to knock
off the ones he really likes when all the big men
go off to fight the war? The blossoming of this
adolescent into a full man. Who knows? You
pays your money...as they say. I can't really
imagine why you'd want to go and see it; a
good chuckle with the lads or to get a reluctant
girlfriend in the mood to come-back-to-your-
place; pretty dreadful stuff, with dubbed
dialogue just to round it off.
So without more ado we move onto Class
of 1984 Cert 18, directed by mark Lester,
showing at the Leicester Square Theatre. It
was not, as they say, well received at the
preview. There was the usual gang who feel it's
clever to laugh a lot when they find a film
ridiculous and the occasional exit by those
who had decided they had seen enough to
condemn it from their lofty pinnacles. Me, I
stayed without any great difficulty to the final
curtain.
The story is set in Abraham Lincoln High
School which, it transpires, is run not by the
teachers, but by a gang of thugs lead by a Mr
Stegman, powerfully played by Timothy van
Patton. They organise drug pushing,
prostitution, theft and any other sort ot crime
they take a fancy to among their fellow pupils.
But enter our hero, Andy Norris who decides
he's going to clear the gang out of the school
and put Stegman and his men behind bars.
Thus the battle escalates, spilling out of school
onto the streets and into one another's
houses. The police can't do much because the
troublemakers are juveniles and the principal
:"'§ | fI
m B
™
mm
" ™ M e
Teaching...the reward/punishment way
Get it right and you keep your head.
is loth to take action unless the thugs are
caught red handed.
However, what starts off as a promising
commentary on the contemporary problems
of juvenile deliquency and urban decay rapidly
descends through mindless violence into pure
farce as the director lets slip his sense of
realism and goes for the popular blood and
guts market, and there's plenty of it.
Does Mr Lester see his piece as a prophetic
view of the future, or lack of one, of the
teaching profession as his production blurb
seems to suggest? Does he see a school as a
potential arena of conflict and exploit it to the
full? Is his school to be taken as an allegory for
society as a whole? Well, all I can say is that on
me if failed; ludicrous pieces of philosophy
such as that intoned by Mr Stegman take
some swallowing: 'I am the future...pain is
everything. Life is pain. You will learn...' he
growls. Belief was not sustained in the fact and
the allegory was not explained. Perhaps I
found it easier to take than the mob who
headed for the exit; in their spawing grounds
of Eton and Harrow, organised violence came
in the form of a good birching at regular
intervals; should they have contemporary
experience of an American high school, they
might have found it disturbing rather than silly
at times.
So, while flawed by a rather OTT climactic
scene and the unbelievable incompetance of
the authority figures, it is a powerful film with
good acting from Penny King as the teacher
come to cleanse the temple and Timothy van
Patten as the pathological teenager with a neat
performance from the veteran Roddy
McDowall, a teacher who discovers that
lessons at gunpoint give his teaching a whole
new flavour. Mr Lester must decide whether
he wants to make movies for a serious purpose
or if he is into the gratuitous violence game.
Mr Stegman wants to ask you a question.
FELIXI I March 4,19831 IPagel5

