WALKA80UT-
LOOKSEE
by Ntbile Optics lite.
In the Sixties London was swinging: Elvis
Presley and Marilyn Monroe were replaced on
this side of the Atlantic by the Beatles, Twiggy
and the mini-skirted pop scene in Carnaby
Street. We were brought up on the move-
ment's tail end and with the cynical acceptance
of the 80s, can only guess at the awe and
optimism with which the (almost) previous
generation embraced the explosion of mass-
media advertising, mass-produced fashion fads
and all-pervasive commercial 'culture'.
The art of the 60s was concerned with
scrutinising the 'new' language of the ad men,
the mid-20th Century urban folk art we all
absorb subconsciously. It is an art which relies
for visual and emotional impact on the symbols
and images of our everyday materialistic
world, as we see it and react to it through TV,
newspapers, comic strips, girlie magazines,
glossies, billboards, etc. Pop artists are not
painting about 'life'—their experiences and
emotions—but rather about an advertising/
packaging type of lifestyle.
Peter Blake
It seems almost inconceivable that anyone can
be consistently optimistic about a Sunday
magazine lifestyle! Peter Blake was a student
at the Royal College of Art in the 1950s and his
Pop period paintings draw freely on popular
sources of imagery for inspiration. Yet, if there
is a hint of melancholy, there is no aggro—he
paints what he enjoys and infuses it with
nostalgia and sentimentality.
The paintings are not all easy, but most are
figurative, which provides a key to their
understanding. A series of paintings of girls
and boys, and his 1961 'Self Portrait with
Badges' open his major retrospective at the
Tate.
They are followed by circus ladies, by Pop
works with pin-ups and fan magazine photos
Marilyn Monroe, who provides the inspiration
for some of-Peter Blake's paintings.
(not a section for WIST members!) and by a
collection of prize fight heroes and strippers.
During the 70s Blake left London to live in
an old West Country railway station. He
formed the Brotherhood of Ruralists and this
period of countryside idyll is recorded with
pictures of children and fairies and the well-
known 'Through the Looking Glass' illus-
trations.
A traditional 'painterly' manner
Peter Blake is a hoarder of bits and a
Romantic: there is a Victorian element, even to
his Pop collage-collections, filled with
evocative memorabilia and scrap-book
clippings. He is also a painter in the traditional
sense. One room is devoted to his exquisite
watercOlours and another to precise drawings
of finely observed circus people, animals and
corners of country life; this strong sense of
drawing is allied to a bright, fresh handling of
paint and an obvious enjoyment of his subject-
matter. I'm not desparately keen on his
sensual fairies but his 1975 'Academy' collage
is a delightful joke and'Portrait of David
Hockney in a Hollywood-Spanish Interior'
contrasts razzmatazz party glitter with
the sitter's ambiguous reaction as onlooker-
it's technically superb even in it's unfinished
state.
Where, When, E?
'Peter Blake' is at the Tate Gallery, Millbank
SW1 until March 20. It's open Mon-Sat 10-
1750, Sun 14-1750. Admission 75p for
students, otherwise £1.50.
P I N C C C M I C
Of Bars and Bars
As you hopefully will have noticed, next Friday
sees another orchestra concert, and
rehearsals are in full swing even now.
Unfortunately, the predilection of the
orchestra for Mahler, Tchaikovsky and
Walton is exceeded only by their predilection
for alcohol. last week the conductor, Rich T
Biscuit (no relation to Duncan Biscuit) found
that a lot of the string section had gone
missing. Realising that they would be in the
Queens Legs, the local hostelry, he headed
over there, to find twenty five of them
indulging in drinking.
A word or two about string players is
necessary here. Unlike brass players, who
drink as often as possible, string players only
drink if they are standing on the vertex of a
square formed by other string players. For
instance, in diagram 1, a string player standing
at A can drink, while a string player standing at
B can not.
B
/ i
s I
- - A
Diagram 1
Rich found the 25 string players standing in a
formation shown in diagram 2. Since he did not
actually need the string section at that time,
but he would need them sober later on, he
wanted to remove as few people as possible,
while ensuring that the remainder, unless they
moved, would not be able to drink. Can you
say how few people he needs to remove, and
can you give a sample pattern that the
remainder would take up, assuming they don't
move?
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm Wednesday. £5 from
Mend a Bike and two free tickets to the
orchestra concert lor a randomly selected
correct entry.
Last Week's Solution
Algebraic Numbers
There were twelve people who found an
expression to give 4. A lot of people seemed to
have a lot of tun with this one, from Phil Fisher
and Richard Glovers recommendation that I
should take base seventeen, to Duncan
Baldwin's thoughts of differentiating with
respect to n. The four best ideas are shown
below. The winning entry came from Reginald
Tan of Chem Eng 2, and he can collect his £5
cheque from the FELIX Office on Monday
after 1:30pm.
As for who found the most: since an infinity
of numbers can be generated by taking
factorials, on the grounds of neatness and
style, Leann Jones of Maths 2 and A M Watkin
of Aero 2 tied for the Jingles haircut voucher,
and by the tried and trusted method of tossing
a coin, the voucher was awarded to A M
Watkin, who can collect the voucher from the
FELIX Office.
4= JH+Jn
n
'
W
T
T where primes denote
/ -ri' differentiation wrt n
ln(nxn)
I
n
V
r
T
In
l|5rT^n*n taking the In in basev^rf
I \ Factfcwjiea..
Diagram 2
Angling Corner
Only two entries to this, from Perola and
Paul Elson of Mech Eng 1, but I hope it was
interesting.
The first thing to notice about right acute
angles is that an angle is a right acute angle if
and only if both its sine and its cosine are
rationals (ie can be expressed as p/q .where
both p and q are integers). Now if we take a
multiple of any right acute angle,
sin(nA) = sin(A + (n-l)A)
= sinAcos((n-l)A) t cosAsin((n-i)A)
cos(nA) = cos(A + (n-l)A)
= cosAcos((n-l)A) - sinAsin((n-l)A)
and nA is therefore a right acute angle by an
easy inductive argument.
We can thus without loss of generality, com-
plete the proof by considering the angle A+B,
where both A and B are right acute angles, and
this again follows from
sin(A+B) = sinAcosB + sinBcosA, and
cos(A+B) = cosAcosB - sinAsinB, both clearly
being rational.
No Footnotes this week, as 1 want to keep
some in store for next term when I don't have
as much time. Don't any engineers have any
difficult pet problems?
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed bp the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Tel 01-589 5111 Ext 1048 or Internal 2S81. Editor: Martin S Taylor; Business Manager: Peter A Rodgers: Advertising Manager: Nick Thexton Copyright FELIX 1983

