Candidates
for the post of PRESIDENT of IC
Union
Chris
BOYD
proposed by Bruce Bricknell
Imperial College is unique in that it has four
unions, three CCUs and the ICU. In the past
the IC Union has always tried to cater for the
general needs of the student ie accommoda-
tion, food, clubs, etc, leaving the equally
important job of introducing the student to the
social life of the college to the CCUs. It would
appear that at present there is a strong body of
opinion among IC Union hacks that the CCUs
have too much power and their grants should
be cut at the expense of barnights and other
social events. I personally think this would be
the biggest mistake so far by this incompetent
bunch of egotistical wankers. The social life
within the college would die, and the healthy
rivalry between the CCUs would cease to exist.
In my opinion the IC Union has spent so much
time bickering about trivial crap that they are
failing to do the job they are there for, screwing
the college for every penny wt can get to
improve the students standard of living.
Concerning the recent upsurge in the belief
that we should rejoin NUS, 1 feel that far from
NUS becoming less involved in party politics, a
small band of influential students are trying to
make the IC Union more involved in party
politics. Societies in the Union such as CND,
Consoc, Soc Soc. etc. can easily cater for the
needs of politically minded students and
should be financed in accordance to their size
of membership, thus leaving the Union
Executive to deal with the problems that the
students face and not those of the whole
world. „. . D ,
Chris Boyd
Carl
BURGESS
proposed by La Iatrou
Strong Stand on Video Games
The pinball and video games are of the greatest
importance to most students. I feel that there
should be many more available for the
voracious appetites of the IC student and that
the present ones should be kept in a better state
of repair.
Strong Sit On Woolly Toilet Seat Covers
Due to exeess sitting down on the hard seats of
the lecture theatres, many students have
complained about the soreness of their rears
when using the toilets. I myself have sufferred
from sores when sliding back and forth on the
toilet seats, attempting to read the graffitti. The
only answer to this is woolly toilet seat covers.
Armchairs for Lecture Theatres
I am of the opinion that all students should be
afforded the opportunity to sleep in comfort
during lectures, as it is very uncomfortable on
the hard seats and there is hardly any leg room
for slouching and discreet unavoidable acts.
Purchase of Alarm Clocks for Union Officers
All union personnel should enjoy the facility of
being worken up, by force if necessary, for the
running of the union.
Free Alcohol at UGMs
This is to increase the participation of the
general body of students in UGMs, otherwise
there will be more for those who turn up and I
doubt whether quorum will be called.
Carl Burgess did not submit a
photograph with his manifesto.
Gaynor LEWIS
proposed by Ian Bull
The Candidate
I am proposing Gaynor for President because I
feel that the union as a whole could only
benefit from her. Throughout her career at IC,
Gaynor has been involved in the union in
social, academic and administrative positions
—from Mines VP to MRE Dep Rep.
Furthermore, her keenness, efficiency,
ability to get on with people and clear-headed
thinking; combined with a refusal to be college
'- door-mat will ensure that the union will no
i longer stagnate, but at last move forward.
• , , Ian Bull
The Job
" During my time at IC. I have been involved in
i most aspects of student life. I feel this interest
and commitment will enable me to do the job
of President to the best of my ability.
. The Issues
Residence: Although the Lauwerys Report is a
Page81 I March 4,19831
well prepared and researched document,
certain recommendations are detrimental to
students at IC, eg removal of college subsidy
on residence—resulting in a large rent increase.
Further discussion is vital before any
recommendations are implemented.
The issues of refectories revives every
year—with little ever being achieved! The
situation has to improve! The problems of
residence are now being discussed—I would
like to see a report, similar to the Lauwerys
report, published on catering facilities at
college: then, some reasonable recommenda-
tions and action could be undertaken.
Rejoining the NUS would Cost IC a
minimum of £4,000. I personally feel this
money could be better spent elsewhere!
However the choice is yours! IF the student
body elects to re-affiliate itself with
NUS....then IC would do so.
Joining the Universities Athletics Union will
enable sportsmen and women at IC to play
against a far higher standard of opposition, as
well as ensure the representation of IC as a self-
sufficient sporting college—nuner than under
the guise of ULU.
Gaynor Lewis
• • a H H H H H H H H H F E L i X

