Philip NATHAN
proposed by Mike Munroe
Over all of this tnree years at Imoerial College.
Philip Nathan has been involved with both
ICi; and RCSU He has Deep Academic Rep,
Life Sciences Dep Rep. Liberal Club Chairman
and Treasurer. He is now Education Policy
Officer for the Union of Liberal Students and a
member of the Liberal Party Education Panel.
The campaign slogan 'Involvement,
Direction, Commitment' illustrates well my
approach. As president I will work to get
students involved in their union through both
fun and commitment to serious policies.
Money for Dep Reps
The hub of much of the social and academic
work of the union, departmental repre-
sentatives receive no funding. I will encourage
departmental student committees and press for
the introduction of dept rep funding.
No to Loans!
Loans will give students debts of £3,000-
10,000. Through lobbying, joining marches,
writing letters and whatever means necessary
we must oppose loans!
A Financial Review
I will set up a working party to review the
spending priorities of the union and union
finance in general.
Academic Affairs
I will press for more lecturer training, survey
the effectiveness of staff/student committees
and campaign for full student membership on
the Board of Governors.
Education Cuts
In all departments substantial finance is being
withdrawn. Technicians are not being replaced,
coursework is being affected.
Residences
It is good to see the proposal in the recent
Lauwerys report that 125 new student places in
residence should be made available; however
certain recommendations such as reductions in
the number of security guards, wardens/sub-
wardens and the implied rent increases are
totally unacceptable.
Overseas Students
I will campaign for the abolition of full-cost
fees for overseas students.
Finally, I will not make decisions on matters
affecting students without full and proper
consultation with those concerned.
For more information contact Philip
Nathan, c/o Union Office.
Candidates
for the post of FELIX E
D
I
T
O
R
and Print Unit
Manager
Pallab GHOSH
proposed by Jo Claydon
Pallab didn't need to convince me that he is the
best person for the job. His experience speaks
for itself. He wrote and researched news stories
on Steve Marshall's FELIX in 1981. In 1982,
he gained valuable knowledge of layout and
design under Mark Smith's editorship. This
year he has diversified—firstly as a key
member of the ICU Handbook staff, and
recently by editing two strikingly original
issues of The Wellsian, the newspaper of the H
G Wells Society. Add a dash of charm, humour
and enthusiasm and you have all the
ingredients of an excellent FELIX Editor.
Jo Clayton
A FELIX Editor must be fully aware of all the
stages oi newspaper production—subediting,
typography, layout, design, printing and post
production work. But there's more to
producing a newspaper than just the technical
side. I want a more exciting, entertaining
FELIX next year, one that will make people sit
up and take notice at morning lectures.
Three years ago the current FELIX Editor,
Martin Taylor, initiated a brilliant series of
puzzles—a tradition I would like to see
continue next year. I would also like to
introduce a crossword and have other
competitions too.
News coverage in F E L I X needs to be
improved substantially. This can only be done
by a FELIX Editor who is prepared to get out
of his office and dig out the facts. The paper
also needs more and better photographs,
especially on the sports pages.
It is essential for FELIX to campaign hard
and effectively for student rights, on issues
such as residence, refectories and student
services if we are to get any improvements in
these areas.
For a more entertaining and relevant FELIX
next year vote for me on Monday and Tuesday.
Pallab Ghosh
Lee PADDON
proposed by Andrew Layton
Promises, Promises
Somebody once said there are lies, damn lies
and manifestos (or something like that) and
I'm sure that you treat anything sabbatical
candidates say with a highly deserved pinch of
salt. So I won't be making any big promises,
I'll just tell you about the sort of FELIX I
would enjoy producing.
FELIX vs ICU
FELIX should not be a mouthpiece of the
Union, it should keep a healthy distance,
independent and if need be, critical. But I
won't be sounding off for the sheer hell of it,
since any criticism made when really necessary
will be thought of as just 'having a go' as usual.
What do you, the customer, want from
FELIX? I don't know, but I intend to find out.
If elected I would run a questionnaire in
FELIXMHIIIIIIIIIMIIIIl II I M i M W B H M M
FELIX next term to find out what people
think.
Good for a Laugh
The main change I think people want is more
humour. FELIX takes itself too seriously at the
moment; after all we're only a student paper,
not an influential national daily. People should
really enjoy reading FELIX; life at IC is a bit
short of laughs at times and it doesn't take
much to make F E L I X fun. The 'London
Student' picked up our recent 'Gorilla in
Sherfield' story and made it far more
entertaining.
The two publications I really admire are
'Punch' and 'Private Eye' and while I'm no
Alan Coren I'd like to try to model FELIX
move along their lines. I'd also like to have a
regular looney page, full of completely dreamt
up, fun 'news' articles. If you remember
'Feelsick' last year, you'll know what I mean.
As long as everyone knew it was just for laughs
then no-one would get too upset and start
reaching for their 'Disgusted, Tonbridge Wells'
notepaper. So vote for me as FELIX Editor
and I guarantee in future you'll look forward to
Fridays!!
I March 4,19831 EMfcJUMPage 9

