11
felix
Friday 11 May 2007
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
STALKER – Shadow of Chernobyl
I
t’s a rare thing indeed to
find a first-person shooter
with a soul, which makes it
all the more valuable when
it does turn up. In recent
years, such games have been few
and far between, with only Half-
Life 2 really making the cut for me.
S.T.A.L.K.E.R. – Shadow of Cher-
nobyl (Stalker from now on, sod the
6 full stops) is a game with a soul,
and one which oozes atmosphere.
Set in Chernobyl, the site of a hor-
rific real-world nuclear accident in
the 1980s, the game instantly has a
dark and eerie air to it, and this is
the game’s strongest selling point
throughout.
The game exudes authenticity –
NPC’s converse in Russian, groups
sit around campfires strumming
guitars and humming quiet, mourn-
ful tunes and even when speaking
to the player, all have a thick Rus-
sian accent. The Zone, the vast
area around Chernobyl which has
been taken over by various crea-
tures unknown to the rest of the
world, is both lively and deserted at
the same time.
Ramshackle dwellings and com-
munist-era concrete blocks house
a world that was abandoned hastily,
but still remains. Dolls, handbags
and broken home appliances litter
the Zone, a constant reminder of a
place that was abandoned hastily.
And yet, all this atmosphere sur-
rounds a game that feels solid and
well-built in all the right places.
Guns sound and feel right, explo-
sions shake you, bullets hurt and
even the most lowly enemy can kill
you if not dealt with correctly.
This is another aspect of Stalker
that draws you in – a constant feel-
ing of vulnerability that permeates
the game. The story isn’t the main
reason to keep playing, the need to
survive is. This is survival horror in
its truest sense, a game where you
aren’t being funneled through cor-
ridor after corridor, triggering a set
of scripted events over which you
have no control.
Enemies react well to your actions
and fight their own battles even
without your intervention, which
makes you feel mortal. You are not
Freeman, you are not the divine
hand of God – a fact that the devel-
opers highlight by putting Gordon
in a cameo role. In fact, expect to
die a lot when you get flanked by an
enemy you didn’t know was there
Click. Click. Click-click. Clickclickclickclickclickclick. Sebastian Nordgren heads into the zone
S.T.A.L.K.E.R.’s engine underwent several bouts of re-engineering, before reaching its final state. But it’s the AI that brings the world to life.
or walk around a corner into a blast
of shotgun fire. It’s a refreshing
change to play a game that is actu-
ally difficult, that doesn’t hold you
by the hand and doesn’t apologize
when it places you in a situation
that will get you killed over and over
and over again until you get it. This
aspect is especially emphasized in
story-critical sections, which tend
to be underground – where a care-
less move will result in your quick
and violent death.
However, Stalker isn’t perfect
and – even compensating for the
elevated expectations that five
years of development and the most
ambitious ideas of the past decade
bring – there are some definite dis-
appointments. The RPG element of
Stalker is mostly left undeveloped
and feels unfinished. While rum-
maging through the many stashes
of equipment available sometimes
pays off, these rewards are usually
very temporary. Artifacts and suits
can be gained purely from doing the
main quest lines, and after you find
a good choice of artifacts there’s no
reason to change.
The lack of side quests was also
irritating, despite the fact that
very, very few of these resulted in a
meaningful reward. Most result in a
cash reward in a game with very lit-
tle to buy. By the time you can buy a
weapon from a trader, you’ll already
have upgraded past it.
But for me the main disappoint-
ment ended up being small bugs
and cut corners. The PDA is nice,
but the inability to have full control
of your current mission was annoy-
ing, and map markers just do not go
away, ever. Main quest locations are
still marked on your map long after
you’ve completed that objective.
Enemies respawn quickly, making
for irritating and unnecessary fire-
fights when just running through
an area.
The biggest flaw, however, was
the division of the Zone into smaller
areas. While it does divide the game
up into levels, the developers still
approach the game as a fully open-
ended one in an undivided game
space.
This leads to a lot of time-consum-
ing running back and forth through
as many as four different areas for
one quest, with an extensive load
time between each of them. A quick-
travel option would have been ap-
preciated to fill the void that axing
vehicles from the game left.
Stalker really is an amazing game
despite my complaints, but it feels
unfinished and desolate (in the bad
way) in some areas that rub the
player the wrong way.
My conclusion, then, is that while
Stalker stands on its own rights as
one of the best shooters to come out
in the past decade, Stalker 2 will be
an earth-shattering experience.
Merely filling in the blank areas of
Stalker and adding all those fea-
tures that had to be removed will
create a game that is massive, com-
pelling and utterly captivating.
But as with all of these great gam-
ing experiments, it needs the sup-
port of gamers. Is Stalker worth
it? Yes. But more importantly, you
should buy Stalker so that GSC
Gameworld can go on to create that
perfect sequel.
S.T.A.L.K.E.R.’s development team took a trek right into the heart of Chernobyl as part of the game’s research. Some of the team are above, with the main reactor behind them.

