Werner Herzog: An Old New Wave
Stefan Carpanu explores the beauty of cinema past by contemplating German maverick, Werner Herzog
As German cinema has been creep-
ing into the limelight in the last few
years (the Oscar win of The Lives of
Others – even if controversial – be-
ing the just reward for their recent
“exports”) I turn to look at one of
the major German directors of the
20th century.
Werner Herzog, born in Munich
on the 5th of September 1942, is
perhaps one of the most unusual
film directors – and people – you
can come across. His story is so
bizarre, that you might well think
it the result of a very imaginative
mind: born in a mountainous area
in Bavaria, avid of hiking since the
age of 14, he did not come into con-
tact with technology until he was 17
– when he first used a telephone. He
worked part-time as a steel welder
during high-school and made his
first film at the age of 19.
These experiences shaped his
movies to a large extent, as Herzog
went on to shoot some of the most
vivid and haunting imagery ever to
be seen on film. He is credited as
part of the “New German Wave”
in cinema, which existed between
1960 and 1980, and included the
likes of Rainer Werner Fassbinder
and Wim Wenders.
So how does Herzog’s work and
his conception of art stand up to the
“rigours” of the 21st century? Well, I
reckon the word “boring” may come
to mind at one point or another. But
that is only because many people
are not used to the poetic dualism
of his films. For instance, his re-
make of Nosferatu is more an ana-
lytical look at the hideous condition
of the lycanthrope, him bearing the
loneliness of eternity, the qualms of
addiction, the perpetual isolation,
Stefan Carpanu rather than being a blood thirsty, vi-
cious creature. Chances are, you’ll
end up feeling bad for the guy.
Herzog’s acclaimed master-
pieces Aguirre: The Wrath of God
and Fitzcarraldo are a joy to gaze
at, sublimely shot in the Peruvian
rainforest. This made them not
only beautiful to look at, but also
immensely difficult to conceive.
Filming in the jungle, alongside a
madly eccentric (but also exqui-
site) performer like Klaus Kinski,
in such a remote area of the world
was a challenge often greater than
the film itself.
It is amazing how the stories
behind the making of his movies
turn into a work of art of their own.
There is a special vibration to it all,
thoroughly caught on film in the
documentary about the “love-hate”
relationship between Herzog and
Kinski – My Best Fiend. Herzog’s
take on documentaries is also ab-
sorbingly original, as they often
transcend the factual realm and
dazzle, with the essence of life and
art shining through. Perhaps one
of the best documentary films ever
made, Grizzly Man, the sad story
of two activists who lived amongst
grizzly bears, takes on a depth so
unexpected that its beauty can but
leave a deep impression.
This year, his first major fictional
film in years is supposed to pre-
miere, if it manages to disentan-
gle itself from financial difficulties.
Rescue Dawn stars Christian Bale
and looks at the story of a pilot shot
down in Vietnam (what imagery I
sense already!) who goes through
an immense ordeal in his fight for
survival.
Film is beautiful, they used to say.
Watching Herzog’s works will tell
you why.
Imperial College
Information and Communication
Technologies Division (ICT)
Summer Student Projects
£11.30 per hour
ICT has a number of opportunities available for
students over the summer vacation period. The
successful applicants will be working on projects in
the following areas:
- IT Security and Disaster Recovery
- Microsoft Sharepoint
- Wireless Networking
- ICT Faculty Support
These positions would ideally suit undergraduate students with relevant
IT skills, who would like to gain practical IT experience in a challenging
environment. The successful applicants should expect projects to last 8
– 12 weeks, depending on the project assigned.
InterestedcandidatesshouldsendtheirCVtoSuePritchett
(s.pritchett@imperial.ac.uk).
Closing date for applications: Friday 25th May 2007
If you’re looking for somewhere to stay in London this summer, particularly if you’re
staying on to study or undertake a vacation work placement, look no further than
Evelyn Gardens, Wilson House, Piccadilly Court or Orient House. Each Hall provides
secure self-catered accommodation, with private telephone, internet access and
laundry facilities.... and this year it could be yours for FREE!
To celebrate Imperial College London’s Centenary, we are offering 2 lucky winners
a prize of their entire stay in one of the above Halls. All that you have to do is book
your accommodation with us by 1st June 2007 and we will place you in a prize draw.
Calling All Imperial Students:
Win Your London Summer Accommodation!!!
Interested?
For full details of the facilities at each Hall or to find out more about this prize draw:
Visit www.imperial-accommodationlink.com
Call 020 7594 9507/11
Or Email accommodationlink@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 11 May 2007
FILM film.felix@imperial.ac.uk

