Clouding the issue: cosmic rays
Cosmoclimatology claims cosmic rays affect cloud cover; CLOUD, an experiment at CERN, will investigate.
Edmund Henley
Science Editor
Cosmoclimatology is one of the
more contentious theories invoked
to explain global warming. Still a
minority view, it contends that one
major contributor might not be
man-made, but natural – that the
interaction between the sun’s mag-
netic field and cosmic rays might
be affecting the clouds, and hence
the climate. At a very simple level,
it likens the atmosphere to cloud
chambers, the very early detectors
used to observe sub-atomic parti-
cles. To test this theory, scientists
at CERN have constructed CLOUD
(Cosmics Leaving OUtdoor Drop-
lets – as ever in science, a rather
forced acronym), a modern equiva-
lent to these detectors, which will
be subjected to an artificial cosmic
ray shower from the particle accel-
erators there.
Before describing the experiment
though, it’s worth having a quick
look at the theory. Cosmic rays are
mostly protons (though sometimes
heavier particles or nuclei) often
originating outside our solar sys-
tem, which have been accelerated
to high energies – in some cases
possibly by supernovae. The most
energetic can exceed 1020
eV, about
the same energy as a well-bowled
cricket ball – fairly hefty for some-
thing so much smaller. Because
they are charged, cosmic rays are
affected by magnetic fields, such as
that of the sun – its field contains
structures which can act as mag-
netic barriers to the particles.
It’s well-known that the sun goes
through an 11-year cycle, during
which sunspots become more fre-
quent, before disappearing again;
it’s less well-known that this is also
tied in with the sun’s magnetic field.
As the cycle heads towards solar
maximum, when sunspot number
increases, the solar magnetic field
becomes more complex, affecting
thecosmic-rayshieldingstructures,
so that fewer cosmic rays reach the
earth. When the solar cycle heads
towards a minimum however, the
situation is reversed: the shielding
effect is not so strong, so more cos-
mic rays reach earth.
Buthowwouldthiscyclicvariation
in cosmic rays affect the climate?
When cosmic rays impinging on the
earth reach the troposphere, the
layer of the atmosphere between
the ground and approximately 10km
altitude, they often collide with air
molecules, creating ions. Cosmocli-
matology maintains that these ions
may then be able to affect the for-
mation of the nuclei around which
water vapour condenses (or freez-
es), to form the droplets (or ice par-
ticles) which make up a cloud. Or
they may change the atmospheric
chemistry affecting the presence of
vapour.
There have been some results,
hotly contested, which suggest that
low-level clouds (below about 3km)
may be more frequent when there
are more cosmic rays. An increase
in the number of such clouds would
reflect more of the sun’s light,
leading to a cooler climate. But
why would this be linked with glo-
bal warming? From both histori-
cal measurements of the Earth’s
magnetic field, and records of iso-
tope abundances (such as 10
Be), it
is thought the solar magnetic field
may have increased over the last
hundred years, and cosmic rays
encountering earth subsequently
decreased, creating fewer low-level
clouds to cool the planet, and hence
leading to an increase in global
temperatures.
However, much of the evidence
cosmoclimatology adherents claim
supports their theory is disputed
by other scientists. And crucially,
the mechanisms by which cosmic
rays may eventually create cloud
condensation nuclei are unclear.
CLOUD, a £6.2 million experiment,
is designed to address this uncer-
tainty, investigating (over 8 years)
if and how these mechanisms oc-
cur. At its heart lie two chambers,
a 0.5m diameter cloud chamber,
and a 2m reaction chamber, which
can be filled with a variety of gas-
es found in the atmosphere, and
whose temperature and pressure
can be altered to recreate condi-
tions anywhere in the troposphere
or stratosphere. Water vapour
super-saturation levels of around
1% will also mimic nature, mak-
ing CLOUD rather different from
classical cloud chambers, where
saturation levels were hundreds of
times higher. Lastly, electric fields
matching those in clouds can also
be generated.
CERN was chosen as it can gen-
erate a particle beam matching the
energies of the section of the cosmic
ray spectrum thought to be rele-
vant – the whole experiment can be
flooded with a beam of muons and
pions with energies from 1-3.5×109
eV, and with fluxes between 1-10
times the cosmic ray levels. This
beam can also be turned off, allow-
ing researchers to observe the ex-
periment under conditions where
only “natural” or background cos-
mic rays are present.
A whole host of detectors sur-
round the two chambers, including
CCD imagers and Mie scattering
detectors (to observe any droplet
formed), mass spectrometers, and
trace gas analysers – ensuring
the effort expended to create this
precisely tuneable experimental
atmosphere is rewarded, with lit-
tle of what is going on escaping
observation.
The researchers hope to use
these observations to clarify how
ions created by cosmic rays affect
various processes, such as the cre-
ation of condensation nuclei from
various trace vapours (eg sulphu-
ric acid); how these condensation
nuclei grow to become cloud con-
densation nuclei; how these are
then activated when water vapour
is present; and the formation of ice
nuclei.
CLOUD suffered a postponement
due to funding issues with CERN’s
flagship LHC experiment, but a
prototype detector finally started
initial operations last October. Ini-
tial results from the prototype are
expected this summer, and results
from the full experiment are ex-
pected in 2010.
Since the political will to address
global warming is finally being
mustered, on the basis that most
evidence to date suggests it is an-
thropogenic, a theory which ab-
solves humanity of even part of its
responsibility in causing the warm-
ing needs to be tested very vigor-
ously, and CLOUD will do just that
for cosmoclimatology. Such testing
is important not only to address the
legitimate concerns of other scien-
tists, but also to allay the equally
legitimate concerns of the public
and politicians – that policies with
wide-reaching effects are based on
the best science available; and to
give the lie to fears there may be an
establishment scientific view which
dogmatically dismisses alternative
explanations, without testing their
validity. Not investigating, and leav-
ing an appearance of doubt, risks
providing fodder to those on the ex-
tremes, who thrive on skewing sci-
ence to support their agendas.
So despite the controversial na-
ture of the science it is investi-
gating, the progress on CLOUD
should be welcomed, even by those
who suspect it is looking for effects
which are of little or no importance.
For even if CLOUD comes up with
a null result, money will not have
been wasted, as the principle of sci-
ence will have been pursued.
A supernova remnant. CLOUD will investigate the contentious claim cosmic rays from sources like these
could affect cloud formation, and hence be a significant contributor to global warming.
Shafted. Muon fluxes at IceCube are linked to temperatures 10km up
An interesting counterpart to the
cosmoclimatology theory is being
investigated by Oxford’s Dr Scott
Osprey, amongst others. At a talk at
Imperial a few months ago, he pre-
sented some initial results, which
are obtained by turning the cosmo-
climatology concept on its head:
rather than looking at the effect of
cosmic rays on climate, he’s one of
a team of researchers investigating
the climate’s effect on cosmic rays.
A shower of high-energy muons
(a heavier version of an electron) is
caused by the collision of primary
cosmic rays with air molecules near
the Upper Troposphere Lower-
Stratosphere (UTLS) boundary, a
region about 10-20km up. However,
the probability of collision should
depend very much on the air density
(denser air provides more targets
for the primary cosmic rays) – and
hence, by the ideal gas law, muon
production should also depend on air
temperature.
Muons which result from such
collisions are routinely observed at
particle detectors around the world,
such as MINOS (USA), MACRO
(Italy), and IceCube (Antarctica).
The latter facility is a collection of
spherical detectors on cables longer
than the Eiffel Tower, like beads on
strings, hanging down deep shafts in
the ice. Like MINOS (and to a lesser
extent MACRO), it is in fact designed
to monitor the flux of much lighter
neutrinos, but to do this researchers
need to remove the signal caused
by muons – not an easy task accord-
ing to Dr Osprey. However, when it
is done, this separation yields a by-
product, a count of muons generated
by cosmic rays.
Comparing the flux of high-energy
muons (above 1012
eV, as they live
long enough to interact with the air)
with ECMWF temperature data (a
data set which combines observa-
tions and modelling to provide global
coverage), Dr Osprey found there
was a strong link between the tem-
perature at the UTLS and the muon
flux. When asked by Felix, he noted
these results were not mere correla-
tion; supported by good physical
grounds,theyshowastrongcausal
link, making muon flux more than
just a proxy of the temperature at
the UTLS.
Being able to plumb the atmos-
phere remotely over one detec-
tor, taking its temperature using
muons, is all very well, but Dr
Osprey also pointed out that using
several detectors in different loca-
tions may be much more interest-
ing, as it will allow meteorological-
ly meaningful parameters, such as
wind (which depends on tempera-
ture gradients), to be investigated.
And lastly, it’s interesting to note
his results really are looking at
the effect of the climate on cosmic
rays, and not the obverse – the
high energies of the muons he was
looking at meant they originated
from cosmic rays which would
themselves be energetic enough
not to be greatly affected by the so-
lar magnetic field, and so unlikely
to be playing a role in any cosmic-
ray induced climate variation.
4 felix Friday 11 May 2007
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

