Channel 4’s recent broadcast of
Martin Durkin’s “The Great Global
Warming Swindle” demonstrated
admirably that the media has little
issue with generating controversy
purely to serve its own purposes,
even if those responsible for the
content have a history of complaints
upheld against them by the Inde-
pendent Television Commission.
So what? Does it matter if, for ex-
ample, a producer knowingly mis-
represents those who are asked to
contribute to his programme in or-
der to stir up discord? Is it wrong to
report what many would consider to
bepropagandaknowingthatthema-
jority of those for whom you claim to
speak would take a different view?
Some might argue not. However,
the extent to which the debate over
global warming is being used as a
platform for polarizing public opin-
ion represents a dangerously cyni-
cal move by much of today’s press
– a move which is not without its
consequences.
At the heart of the issue lies sci-
ence’s fragile relationship with the
public. On the one hand, science is
seen as a risky, costly, incompre-
hensible pursuit; out of touch with
daily life and out of reach to anyone
but those already admitted to its
community. On the other, science
is humanity’s best effort yet to truly
understand the world in which we
live; its benefits to society as di-
verse as the questions it seeks to
answer and its processes transpar-
ent. Yet the very existence of these
two opposite views of science is as
much of a product of the media as
are any of the scientific controver-
sies reported on the TV and in the
newspapers.
Since the 1960s, when the liberal
movement brought about a loss of
faith in traditional figures of politi-
cal and institutional authority, sci-
entists have had an increasing role
Science, conscience & controversy
Who’s swindling who when it comes to the debate over global warming?
as a class of professional experts
able to mediate on social relations.
Policy makers have subsequently
resorted to delegating an escalating
number of problems to those scien-
tists considered able to give their
‘professional’ and ‘expert’ opinions.
While there is much to be said for
the resultant rise in the public
awareness of science, the way in
which this is handled in today’s me-
dia culture can be at best, damaging
and at worst, deceitful.
Journalistic attempts to be objec-
tive often make use of balance by
allowing a variety of opposing views
to be heard. Although this undoubt-
edly increases the news interest of
a piece, it often has the effect of re-
ducing the subject at hand to some-
thing similar to party politics. For
politics itself, this is not necessarily
a good thing. In the case of science,
however, it runs the risk of trivialis-
ing the amount of specialist knowl-
edge that is required to pass valid
scientific judgement on the issue
Adam Kaye
being discussed. What is worse, a
limited use of balance runs the risk
of seriously endangering the objec-
tivity of the piece.
There is no doubt that much of
the latest scientific research is
hotly contested and that significant
debate does occur, both publicly and
privately, between scientists with
opposing viewpoints. In the case of
global warming, a host of theories
exist whose validity is challenged
by many within the scientific main-
stream (for instance the effect of
cosmic rays [see opposite page], the
shutting-down of the Gulf Stream,
and positive ‘carbon cycle feedback’
loops where carbon dioxide is re-
leased from warming permafrost,
sea beds and/or soil). Additionally,
it is practically impossible to dis-
sociate the political and scientific
issues that make up the ongoing
debate over the effects of climate
change. Despite this, there are cer-
tain basic understandings, made
clear in the International Panel on
Climate Change’s recent “Summa-
ry for Policymakers”, whose validity
is supported by the overwhelming
majority of the international sci-
entific community. The facts of the
report are stated each with their
own degrees of uncertainty – an un-
certainty based on the quantitative
evaluation of the margins of error
involved in the measurements and
calculations used, not an uncer-
tainty based on the subjective views
of those who produced the report.
This key difference is crucial to un-
derstanding how the scientific and
media worlds differ in their repre-
sentations of reality.
What can be said, then, of those
who exploit any scientific uncer-
tainty surrounding global warming
solely for the purposes of generat-
ing controversy in the public do-
main? In the case of Martin Dur-
kin’s documentary for Channel 4,
one contributor, Carl Wunsch, wrote
that the misuse of his remarks in
the programme was ‘close to fraud’,
that his ‘professional reputation
was damaged’ and that he had been
‘duped’ into agreeing to be filmed
under the terms by which he had
initially been approached. Profes-
sor Jo Haigh of Imperial College
[interviewed overleaf] was one of
several of the UK’s leading climate
scientists who made their opinion of
the programme clear in a letter to
the Observer. “We defend the right
of people to be sceptical, but for C4
to imply that the thousands of scien-
tists and published peer-reviewed
papers, summarised in the recent
international science assessment,
are misguided or lying lacks scien-
tific credibility and simply beggars
belief.”
In allowing the debate over cli-
mate change to continue on the
level aired by “The Great Global
Warming Swindle”, Martin Durkin,
whether deliberately or not, plays
directly into the hands of an indus-
try who stands to gain by distract-
ing the public from one key issue.
This issue is that the economic and
industrial framework of the world
today is built around our ability to
extract and use fossil fuels. Said in-
dustry, and society as a whole, must
be made to account for the ever-in-
creasing extraction of these fossil
fuels, the amount of pollution gen-
erated by their consumption, the
likely effects of this pollution, and
the reasons behind planned finan-
cial investment in infrastructure
built solely for the purpose of fur-
ther fossil fuel extraction. We need
to be able to recognise those parties
whose interests are promoted by
the voices who continuously shout
controversy in the face of climate
change and move the debate to their
doorstep. Above all though, we need
to maintain a clear understanding
of who is being swindled and who is
doing the swindling. Our ability to
look back on the 21st century with a
clear conscience will depend on it.
The physiological and psychologi-
cal impact of vehicle design was
one of many thought-relating talks
at Imperial’s recent Neuroscience
research day – Felix went along to
find out more.
Spatial orientation is a very ba-
sic biological requirement, accord-
ing to Professor Michael Gresty, of
the Division of Neuroscience and
Mental Health. Even the most basic
lifeforms need to be able to orient
themselves with respect to their en-
vironment, so they can respond to,
say, a chemical gradient. It’s even
more important for higher organ-
isms, like humans, which operate
in a more complex environment.
As a result of being such a funda-
mental priority, Gresty said main-
taining one’s orientation can often
take precedence over other cogni-
tive processes. This can be fatal in
certain situations – apparently 12%
of aircraft crashes (rising to 30%
for military helicopters) can be at-
tributed to pilot disorientation, de-
spite them nominally being trained
to cope with this. Gresty and his
collaborators set out to investigate
how spatial and verbal tasks were
affected by disorientation, strap-
ping test subjects into a pivoting
chair, with a screen displaying an
apparent view of the outside world.
They found that when the screen
showed a world which pivoted with
the right frequency, but in the wrong
direction (the floor came into view
when the chair tilted backwards),
subjects’ spatial test results were
very poor. But this was an insidious
effect, as even professional pilots
weren’t aware what they were see-
ing was absurd (virtually none of
the audience members, watching a
video of the tests, noticed this either,
until it was pointed out). Hence they
couldn’t quarantine the poorer test
results stemming from disorient-
ing motion by, for example, placing
less trust in those results, as they
weren’t aware the motion was sig-
nificantly different from non-disori-
enting motion.
Professor Gresty then passed on
to motion sickness, which appar-
ently affects about a third of any
vertebrate population. In up to 10%
of people, it’s disabling, and can be
a cause of death in ambulances, as
patients experience further stress,
and induced blood pressure change,
due to the ambulance’s motion.
Part of the issue turns out to be
the frequency of the motion – it
seems we are able to cope with mo-
tion which induces high-frequency
oscillations, such riding a horse;
or with motion where the oscilla-
tions are slow, such as those on an
aircraft carrier. But at intermediate
frequencies (around 0.2 Hz), such
as those experienced in luxury cars,
small ships, or when riding a camel,
many of us become nauseous.
By strapping more test subjects
into a different chair, which could
be oscillated back and forth, and
tilted too (just seeing it was enough
to make this reviewer feel queasy),
Gresty and his colleagues found this
critical frequency exists because of
the way people experience motion.
Low-frequency oscillations are
perceived as being tilted, whereas
higher frequencies are perceived as
true oscillations; and the body has
mechanisms, such as rolling the
eyes or flicking them laterally, de-
signed to reinforce this perception.
However, at 0.2 Hz, Gresty found
there was a transition between the
two types of experience, with the
test subjects’ eyes both rolling and
moving laterally, suggesting motion
sickness is due to the body’s mecha-
nisms for coping with motion being
confused. A good reason not to vol-
unteer for trials like these!
Rock and Roll Edmund Henley
Happy as a cloud. But is the representation of science in programmes like “The Great Global Warming
Swindle”, and the media at large worse than nebulous? Misleading even?
My hump, my hump, my hump. Yuck, what a nauseating beast.
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
felix
Friday 11 May 2007
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

