unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Delivering better governance for
our Union
Who is ultimately in charge of ICU? Is it
the President? The Sabbatical team? The
Executive Committee? The Union Council? Or
is it even the College itself?
There is a saying in legal circles that if you ask
two lawyers a question then youʼll get three
answers. After months of squabbling with
the Collegeʼs barristers and solicitors over
the legal status of ICU and the implications of
the recently introduced Charities Act on our
Union, we have come to the view that this old
adage is entirely correct.
What’s wrong with ICU’s
governance?
Unlike most studentsʼ unions in the country,
ICU is technically a legal part of Imperial
College, although this matter has been
debated for nearly a decade. This unusual
legal arrangement has never really been a
problem because the Union Constitution and
unwritten etiquette has meant that the College
has largely kept its nose out of our aﬀairs.
They are mandated by the Education Act to
keep an eye on our ﬁnances and elections,
but the same act restricts their right to barge
in and ﬁre the whole Sabbatical Team without
a decent reason.
This year a new bill of parliament that governs
how charities are run will become an Act. This
act, known simply as the “Charities Act 2006”,
will call for large studentsʼ unions to register
independently as separate charities from their
parent institutions. After much discussion
it has been agreed that ICU, in spite of its
unusual legal position, should register as a
separate charity and this is exactly what we
intend to do.
Putting trust inTrustees
However, charities are, as deﬁned by this
Act, usually governed by identiﬁable, small,
highly skilled Boards of Trustees. Currently
ICU has no Trustee Board of any kind, except
perhaps (depending on which lawyer you ask)
the Imperial College Council, which has just
one student member. This is a situation that,
in the words of our legal expert, “is a highly
unsatisfactory state of aﬀairs”.
We want to use this opportunity to strengthen
the democratic pillars of our organisation
whilst ensuring that the nitty-gritty tasks
of running a complex charity are eﬀectively
executed. We want to allow for students to
lead our Union but be supported by experts
from diverse backgrounds and ﬁelds of
expertise. Most importantly of all, we want
our Union to retain its autonomy from the
auspices of the College so that our members,
Imperialʼs students, can set out a vision for the
future of our organisation. Finding a model
that strikes a balance between democracy
and pragmatism and romantic notions of
independence and realism has not been easy,
which is why it has taken us nearly a year to
complete a complex governance review that
has touched almost every part of the central
functions of ICU. However, we now have a
proposal that has been warmly received by
every committee and focus group that has
seen it so far.
The big idea
We are proposing that the Union establishes
an identiﬁable, apolitical, highly skilled,
relatively small Board of Trustees to act as the
ultimate governing body of ICU. Underneath
this body we suggest that the powers of the
Union Executive to pass new Union Policy
be transferred to the Union Council, thus
strengtheningourmostdemocraticcommittee
and clarifying its role as the paramount
policy making body in the Union. It is further
recommended that the Union Courtʼs role as
an independent and apolitical judicial body
should remain and be strengthened. This
creates a tripartite governance structure with
a sovereign “Privy Council” body at the very
top.
The Trustee
Board would
be unlike any
other Union
committee and
be tasked to
do all of the
boring but
highly necessary
g o v e r n a n c e
tasks that no
other Union
committee currently undertakes. This
Board would meet six times a year and
would consider ﬁnancial strategy, long term
planning, risk, human resources issues and
anything functional that requires a vision
that extends beyond the 12 months that a
President remains in oﬃce for.
What do you think?
Last week the Union Council discussed these
proposals in detail and the intention is that
they will be formally considered at the next
Council meeting that will be held on May
21st. If everything goes well, we could see
the ﬁrst meeting of this body next term and
notable improvements in the way the Union
is governed over the forthcoming year.
We welcome and indeed strongly encourage
students to let us know what they think about
these proposals. Granted, governance is not
the most exciting topic we have dealt with this
year, but it is important that we get this right.
If you want to express a view on this debate
then you can, attend Union Council at 18:30
on May 21st in the Union Dining Hall, Beit
Building, South Kensington, write to your
representative on the Union Council – a list of
representatives can be on our website or write
to the Union President, John Collins.
T
rustee Board Consultation Launched
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Nominate your Friends for a UnionAward Pedaling for Imperial Students
Our very own President John Collins has
decided to stop aksing for everyone else to
raise money for the Centenary and instead
raise some himself!
John will be cycling from Landʼs End to John
OʼGroats the week after the Centenary Ball.
All money raised from this epic journey will
go towards the Beit Masterplan.
Whatweneedfromyouisyoursponsorship!
The Beit Masterplan is a project to renew
the Union Building and the ﬁrst stage of
thisprojectisalmostﬁnished,withournew
central core sporting a new lift. However
there is still more to be done mainly the
moving of our Student Activities Centre to
the main building.
John will be cycling almost 1000 miles and
aims to complete this within two weeks, so
why not sponsor him 1p a mile?
more info at
imperialcollegeunion.org/pedal
Union Colours are awarded to members of the
Union in recognition of their service, contribution
and dedication to the Union.
There are 5 types of awards in
ascendingorderofrecognition:Half
Colours, Full Colours, Outstanding
Service Awards, Imperial College
Union Fellowships and the Imperial
College Union Distinguished
Fellowship. Half and Full Colours
are awarded to individuals who
have made a positive contribution
to the general life of the Union in
an extraordinary fashion over the
course of the year.
Recipients of the Outstanding
Service Award will have displayed
continuous outstanding
achievement across a broad
spectrum of Union activities.
Fellowships are only awarded to
those Full Members who have
served the Union in a selfless and
dedicated manner which is both
exceptional and beyond reproach
over the time they are at Imperial.
If you think someone in the Union deserves
recognition for their service then nominate them
for the above awards. More information can be
found at imperialcollegeunion.org/colours.

