What is wrong with this College?
For all the acclaim Imperial College has received (9th best in the world, ranked first for some subjects in the
UK), all is not well with this place. An ex-student calls out Sir Richard on some of the worst aspects of here
Dear Sir,
Sir Richard Sykes is probably quite
pleased with himself at the mo-
ment: independence for Imperial
College and a listing in the top ten
of world universities.
But, via Felix, I would like to ask
him the following questions:
1. Does he think that the heavy
drinking culture at Imperial de-
tracts from its image?
2. Does he think the poor quality
and paucity of student accommoda-
tion at Imperial detracts from its
image?
3. Does he think that the absence
of a proper arts faculty at Imperial
detracts from its image?
4. Does he think that the relative
lack of female students at Imperial
detracts from its image?
I would answer ‘Yes’ to all these
questions.
I was fortunate to live in Lillian
Penson Hall for one year - a Univer-
sity of London Postgraduate Hall of
Residence in Paddington. There
were 470 students there from 77 dif-
ferent countries. They were mostly
studying non technical subjects
at the other consituent colleges of
the University of London. It was
fantastic - a real intellectual and
social hothouse. By breaking away
from the University of London,
Sir Richard has lost out on such
opportunities.
Yours faithfully,
Mark Lee
Materials 1986-1990
Andy Sykes replies,
I’d thought I’d reply to this, as it is
highly unlikely Sir Richard would
deem to address your questions.
Firstly, some background: I’ve
been at this College for five years.
I’ve had friends who have been
here for longer. Before I sat down to
write this, I asked them what they
thought of their experience here.
Almost all of them had a negative
view of the College, varying be-
tween a vague indifference to out-
right hate. I’d consider myself in
the latter category.
Firstly, Mark is right about the
heavy drinking culture. Whereas at
other universities, the drinking cul-
ture is a little more moderate (after
the natural excess of the first year),
here drinking seems to be a reason
unto itself; we drink to get drunk.
Secondly, the selection process
for this place tends to skew the
population badly, reducing the di-
versity of students we get. My view
is that most people have few, if any,
interests outside their main area of
study. These people tend to be either
very smart, or very good at work-
ing. Both of these seem to hamper
social ability; I’ve had countless
conversations with random stu-
dents from around the College who
cannot manage to maintain eye
contact while talking.
Conversations often consist of
such riveting topics of lecturers we
like, what courses were hard, and
what investment bank we want
to work for. It is not what I’d call a
intellectual and social hothouse in
any way, shape or form.
The College piles work on its
students, and proclaims this to be
good. Apparently, this will make
you a better scientist, when in fact
all it does is make you a quivering,
stressed wreck by your fourth year.
You’re given very little free time,
by design, and the vast majority
of what you must do is either rote
learning or mindless, uncreative
drudgery.
Only very late on in your degree
are you given a chance to work
alone and on your initiative. This
tends to generate boring, incredibly
focussed people.
This lack of free time means that
any sense of community here suf-
fers horribly. This ties in with a lack
ofanartsfaculty;artsstudentstend
to have more time, and more crea-
tive faculties, which seem to bind a
student population together.
Clubs provide the only outlet, but
even these seem flawed. Most are
intimidating, difficult to get into,
and often run by an ‘old boys’ net-
work that, to a fresher, is rather off-
putting. Don’t get me wrong; many
are fantastic, but I begin to feel
these are the exception rather than
the rule.
The College is split on gender and
race; you can see it everywhere
you look. Integration is minimal.
Overseas students stick with over-
seas students, and home stick with
home, effectively creating two co-
existing colleges. Admittedly, this
is a symptom of broader society,
but the effect is heightened by the
smaller population here.
This is not a University; it’s too
narrow-minded and repressive
to be called that. You’re supposed
to meet people here that you’ll be-
friend for the rest of your life, and
it should be one of the most liberat-
ing experiences you’ll ever have.
Can you honestly say that these
two conditions have been satisfied?
When I look at the experiences old
friends have had in other universi-
ties, I feel jealous.
I regret coming here, and I don’t
think I’m alone in feeling that.
Sub-Warden Position
Beit Hall
A sub-warden position is available in Beit Hall.
The responsibilities include pastoral care of 310 undergraduate
students, and organising the social life of Beit Hall, within a team
of 8 Wardening staff. The position will involve significant
commitment of time, energy and responsibility during evenings
and weekends. No payment is available, but rent-free
accommodation is provided within the Hall. The post would best
match a PG student but all members of College with more than
15 months remaining full-time student registration or
employment contract are eligible. The position is available from
August 2007.
To apply you must complete an application form. Application
forms and further information can be downloaded from
www.union.ic.ac.uk/halls/beit/
Informal enquiries are welcome – please contact Dr Tamer Zaki
on t.zaki@imperial.ac.uk.
Deadline for receipt of applications:
18:00 on Friday 1st June 2007.
omment&
Opinion
7
felix
Friday 11 May 2007
C

