...while the Chairman of the College Wine
Committee finds some unexpected bargains in
Mooney's Wine Cellar
Why not buy direct from the Cellar and obtain
the 7'/2% discount offered for purchases of six
or more bottles, and made up mixed from
anything on the list? Orders can be placed with
the Refectory Office, ground floor, Sherfield
but cash or cheque on collection, please. And
why not experiment this Christmas; serve a
Moselle as an aperitif which is cheaper than gin
and start the dinner with one of the
outstanding 1976 Hocks of which there are still
a few cases in the cellar at very modest prices,
followed by a claret and finish the festivities
with some madeira.
The nomenclature of German wines is
lengthy but very systematic—eg the terms
Spatlese and Auslese denote increasing
degrees of original grape-sugar content. The
greatest Hocks come from the Rheingau,
made exclusively from the Riesling grape. In
the Moselle, this aristocratic vine also yields
exquisite though lighter wines. In the more
southerly regions—Rheinhessen and Rhein-
pfalz—the Hocks are mellower and quicker to
mature; the predominant grape there is
Sylvaner, together with a more recent cross,
called the Scheurebe. Two reasonably priced
Hocks are the Rudesheimer Rosengarten 1979
(£2.80) a n d the S c h l o s s b o c k e l h e i m e r
Felsenberg 1977 (£3.75). The Hocks from
the 1976 vintage are: Gersenheimer Schloss-
garten (£3.75), Kreuznacher St Martin (£5),
Winkeler Hasenprung Auslese (£6.75) and
Johannisberger Holle Auslese (£7).
Many of the clarets on the list are rather
young. All the major regions are represented.
Most of the 1978 and 1979 wines should be
kept for several more years, although the Ch
La Tour St. Bonnet 1979 (3.45) and the Ch. de
Pez 1979 (£5.50) are quite superb already. Of
the somewhat older wines Ch. Medoce 1972
(£2.80) and C h . Mortheil 1975 (£2.85) are
priced very modestly, One has to pay more for
the bigger wines of the 1973 vintage which
stand at about £7.00 a bottle on the list.
Should none of thesexlarets be attractive then
there is a small selection from Burgundy, some
excellent Beaujolais and you could always
experiment with one of the full bodied, high
alcohol wines from California—we have it all!
Have a happy Christmas.
P Grootenhuis
Chairman, IC Wine Committee
Cordon Bleugh!
As a special Christmas treat for those of our readers who
fancy themselves as aspiring chefs, FELIX asked that re-
nowned master of the culinary arts Victor Mooney to submit a
few of his favourite recipes
8B86QQ999 II
Shrimp and Raspberry Cocktail
Line glasses with fresh young turnip-tops. M i x chopped
shrimps and raspberries together with cheese sauce, and
sprinkle with chicory.
Soupe aux Bananes
Mix l ' / 2 pints beef stock with an equal quantity of stewed
rhubarb. Spread banana slices generously with marmite and
add. Stir in the zest and juice of two lemons, and a dash of salt
and pepper. Boil for ten minutes. Sprinkle with vermicelli and
serve.
Poulet Maritime
Stud a roast chicken with cloves. For the stuffing, skin and
bone three cooked kippers. Mash, and add raisins and a little
curry powder.
Prawn and Radish Cheesecake
Cover with custard, chill and serve.
Beetroot Soup
Boil 4ozs of grated cheese in lpt of beetroot juice until
dissolved. A d d diced beetroot and anchovies. Immediately
before serving stir in one glass advocaat per person.
Melon Boats
Cut melon into slices. Completely cover with lemon curd.
Garnish with pickled onions and gherkins and serve on a bed
of turkish delight mixed with a few snails.
Liver Meringue Pie
Line pie dish with pastry. Mince 1 % pounds of cooked liver.
Mix in a handful of sultanas and celery, and turn out into dish.
Flatten out with knife. Spread on a thin layer of apricot jam.
Make up meringue mixture and lay on thickly. Cook in oven
for ten minutes till meringue just brown. Sprinkle with
Worcester Sauce and serve.
Avocado a I'Ancienne
Stud avocados with cloves and bake in microwave oven.
Meanwhile make up sardine icing. Cut avocados into cubes,
dip in sardine icing and then set into cubes of aspic. Serve with
fresh cream and grated nutmeg.
Boiled Egg Soup
Boil six eggs for two minutes (whites still runny). Shell. Add
pint of milk, beef stock and juice from one tin mandarins.
Bring gently to the boil, stirring continuously. Pour into bowls
and divide mandarins between each.
Parsnip Delight
Cut parsnips in half lengthways, and cover with a mixture of
equal quantities thousand island dressing and vintage port.
Garnish with grated chocolate and mint leaves.
Steak Surprise
Grill steak until brown on outside and juicy pink on inside.
Remove from grill, cover completely with marshmallows and
grill again for two minutes till marshmallows begin to melt.
Garnish with sliced pilchards.
Avocado au gratin
Make a traditional sorbet using a mixture of pulped avocado
and capers. Cover with cheese sauce and serve cold.
Cream of Oyster Soup
Poach oysters ('/2 dozen per person) in bacon stock. Drain.
With the liquid make a thin oatmeal porridge. A d d oysters and
one uncooked banana per person.
Iced Cod
Marinade a portion of cod in strong cocoa; spread with
fondant icing and wrap in cooked spaghetti. Serve cold.
Gooseberry and Kidney Crumble
Braise chopped gooseberries with kidneys till thoroughly
cooked. Heat '/2 cup Guinness and stir into gooseberry and
kidney mixture. Put into a deep oval dish and smooth out.
Cover with crumble mixture, put into medium oven for fifteen
minutes.
Seafood Trifle
Line bottom of trifle dish with slices of chocolate swiss roll.
Mix up cooked prawns, cockles, mussels and oysters in 2pts
raspberry jelly, pour over swiss roll. Leave to set, spread '/2 "
layer of cold porridge. Decorate with chocolate buttons and
piped cream.
FELIX D e c e m b e r 1 4 , 1 9 8 2 Paget*

