Bet someone they can't drop a raw egg onto the
floor without it breaking. Most people release the
egg very close to the ground, but it's a remarkable
fact that if it is dropped from a height of more than
six feet it will align itself so that its strong long axis
is exactly vertical, which means that if it lands on a
surface which is smooth but not too hard it won't
even crack. Ideal surfaces are grass, smooth
carpets (such as the carpet tiles in most halls of
residence) and that loose-weave rush matting you
sometimes see in trendy homes. Don't try it on
lino, concrete, parquet
Another puzzle: this one is for contortionists and
has no easy solution. Place a matchbox on end on
the floor. Now, without using any walls or
furniture to steady yourself, and without letting
any part of your body except your feet touch the
floor, pick up the matchbox in your teeth.
Another similar problem is to climb underneath a
table without touching the floor.
'Kneesy, Earsy, Nosey', a children's game which
Stan Laurel repeatedly confused Oliver Hardy
with in the film The Devil's Brother. Hold your
nose with your right hand and your right ear with
your left hand. Now slap your knees with your
hands and grasp your nose with your left hand
while your right hand goes to your left ear. Slap
knees again, then back to the starting position.
Repeat, over and over again, rhythmically and as
quickly as possible.
Make a tower with seven dominoes as shown,
then challenge someone to remove the lowest
horizontal domino without touching any of them
and without letting the tower fall. It isn't easy, but
with practice you can flick an eighth domino
upright and it will flick the required domino clear
of the tower while inertia keeps the rest of them in
position.
ยง
3*
i
Next time you wear a suit or dinner jacket, put a
reel of white thread in the inside pocket and, with
a needle, thread the end of it through the fabric of
the jacket leaving a few inches lying on one lapel.
When a helpful friend tries to remove what looks
like a scrap of cotton from your clothing he'll be
embarrassed to discover he's pulled out a length
of thread several feet long.
Drawings by Richard Archer

