THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION Friday, November 16th, 1979 Issue No. 534
FREEZE ON CCD EXPENDITURE
The Computing and Control Department's
staff/student committee heard, on Tuesday
evening, that C C D is in a dire financial
situation. With commitments such as staff
salaries and maintenance taken into account
C C D is already £40,000 in the red for the
whole academic year. As a result Professor
Lehman has ordered a complete freeze on all
expenditure, in the hope of bringing the true
nature of the situation home to the college
authorities. As the Head of the department
explained at the C C D freshers dinner at the
end of October the situation has arisen
because the department if funded at the same
level as a mathematics based subject. Its
fiscal needs, however, correspond to that of
an Engineering Department.
In the long term Professor Lehman is
hoping that when the Mathematics and
Computing subcommittee of the University
Grants council visit the department, next
March, they can be persuaded to re-classify
the department. This would theoretically
increase the amount of money allocated by
£200 for every full time student.
If the present freeze on expenditure is
continued it is expected that the supply of
line-printer paper will runout by the end of ter
line-printer paper will run out by the end of
term. First year students face additional
problems in that the supply of punched cards,
which is the only form of input medium used
by C C D 1 , will be exhausted within 3 weeks.
ICRN
MISSING PAINTING
A painting has gone missing from the
Botany-Zoology C o m m o n Room. It was
titled, "Phenomenal Cardinal Wingspan." It is
described as a bright, modern depiction of a
butterfly. The college is particularly anxious
to trace the work, since it is on loan from a
professor. The painting is insured for over
£300.
Any information regarding its whereabouts
should be given to Mr. Dawson, the chief
Security Officer (Room 165 Sherfield
Building). A photo of the painting will appear
in next week's FELIX. CINA
GUILDS ~ TV STARS AT THC LORD MAYOR'S SHOW Photo by Colin Palmer
Wednesday was Morphy Day and once
again the C C U s battled it out for the Oar. An
a l l i a n c e of M i n e s a n d R C S rapidly
overpowered Guilds and eventially the Mines
van drove away with the Oar.
A heated battle then followed with the
C C U s hurling an assortment of rotting
vegetables, fish, soot, flour and fruit, at each
other. Only one major injury was sustained,
when a person was hit in the eye and had to be
taken to hospital.
The revelers then went to tea in Harrods,
spreading vile smells along trains in the
MORPHY DAY
NEXT WEEK'S FELIX
WILL BE PRODUCED IN AID OF
IC RAG
YOU WILL BE ABLE TO DONATE
5p (or more) NEXT FRIDAY.
FELIX is published by the Editor, on behalf of the
Imperial College Union Publications Board. FELIX
is printed on the Union premises in Prince Consort
Road. London SW7.
Editor: C R Palmer
FELIX ISSN 0140-071 1 Registered at the Post
Office Copyright FELIX 1979.
Photo by Steve Groves
process. Upon arriving at the store, they were
let in, despite the smell, but were laterthrown
out as they looked around the store.
Another part of Morphy Day was the rowing
competition. The results were as follows:
In the competition between the rugby
teams. Guilds won by a third of a length
having taken the lead in the last 10 strokes.
The Lowery race was won easily by Guilds, as
was the ladies competition. The Morphy race
was won by the Royal School of Mines team
by 3 1/2 lengths. This is the first time in 15
years that Mines have won this race. ICRN

