SERVICES
THUMBS AWAY
There is something of an art to hitch-
hiking: obviously there is an element of luck,
but there are ways and means of improving
your chances of getting a lift. The basic
principle is making it as easy as possible for a
driver to stop for you.
WHERE T O STAND
Three factors should be considered:
1. Drivers should be able to see you easily.
You need to be able to give them a chance tc
think about giving you a lift so the further in
advance they see you the better.
2. The traffic must be moving relatively
slowly. Cars travelling at 60mph along a fast
stretch of road aren't going to suddenly stop
when they see a hitch-hiker. Find somewhere
where the traffic has been slowed down:
roundabouts are usually the best bet - stand
about twenty yards past the roundabout
where cars can easily stop.
3. There must be room for a vehicle to pull to
the side of the road - a lay-by or bus stop so
that they don't interfere with the rest of the
traffic when they stop for you.
MOTORWAYS
It is illegal to hitch on a motorway and the
police are pretty strict on it - £25 fines are not
uncommon. The slip roads are the places to
get a lift. Stand just in front of the sign which
says No L-drivers, no pedestrian, etc and the
police don't normally move you off. At service
stations it's a good idea to wander around the
car and lorry park badgering lorry drivers as
they come back to their cabs.
ROUTES
The most direct route is not always the
quickest way to go: choose the route with the
heaviest traffic. For example, when heading
for the South West the M3/A303 is the most
direct way but the M4/M5 is quicker. Always
carry a map and have a good look at the route
before you start: it is useful to know where a
place is before you accept a lift to it. I find
Geographers AZ 5 miles to the inch the best
because they are very clear and detailed.
WHICH LIFTS TO ACCEPT
The longer the better and always bear in
mind the chances of getting a lift from where
the driver drops you. Motorway interchanges
should be chosen with care so that you don't
get stuck at one where there is very little'feed'
on the motorway.
Don't get dropped off at interchange A
because all the traffic going South will be
joining the motorway at interchange B: get
dropped off at the services before or an
earlier interchange. Motorway interchanges
are a bit of a problem because you can't hitch
there: again, get out at an earlier interchange.
SIGNS
I have great faith in destination signs,
especially on motorways. A sign syaing
'Newcastle please' at the start of the M1 isn't
over-ambitious - you're likely to get a lift
straight there and a car only going to Watford
isn't likely to stop for you. I find it better to
refuse short lifts and wait until I get one going
a reasonable distance.
ETIQUETTE
Where there are several people hitching it is
normal to form a queue facing the oncoming
traffic.
Gilly Anchors
RAILWAY SOCIETY
For the first trip of the session it was
decided to use one of BR's 'Round Robin'
tickets, which offer a cirular trip on scheduled
trains, and the route decided on was Euston-
Carlisle - Skipton - Morecombe - Preston -
Euston.
Departure from Euston was at 07:45 on a
particularly cold Saturday morning, and
Carlisle was reached at 11:30. A two hour
stop-over followed, during which the group
split in two: one half to the local bus-station,
and the other insearch of food. After lunch
one of the group remembered that Carlisle
had the only nationalised pubs in the country,
and this resulted in our sampling the local
brew (not very good). A s it turned out the
breweries here were denationalised in 1972,
but it was a good excuse.
Departing from Carlisle on a train for
Skipton, we made our way over the Settle
and Carlisle line, which was the object of the
trip. The line is one of the most scenic in BR's
current passenger network and some very
good views of the Northeren Pennines are to
be had from the many high viaducts on the
line. The passage of Long Meg viaduct, which
is sharply curved, resulted in one of the group
trying some interesting acrobatics to obtain a
photo of the head of the train. Stopping Settle
station proved interesting as the train was
some three times the length of the platform,
resulting in our pulling up at the station
s e v e r a l t i m e s a n d d r a w i n g f o r w a r d
repeatedly.
Departing from Skipton after changing
trains, this time the train was a Leeds -
Morecombe dmu rather than a loco hauled
train, we made our way along the line to
Carnforth. Clapham station was a point of
interest, as Richard Dunsford had some
signalling equipment from here. The station
turned out to be very archaic and the former
signalbox had long since disappeared along
with the branch line to Tebay on the West
Coast main line.
A longish stop-over in Morecombe again
saw the group dividing into the bus-freaks
and those more interested in food. A visit to a
restaurant on the sea-front saw us served
with food costing twice as much as we had
ordered, and after some interesting language
we left, somewhat lighter in the pocket than
intended.
The journey back to Euston, changing
trains at Lancaster and Preston was after dark
and saw us reaching Euston again at 22:40.
An interesting trip and well worth repeating
at some point in the future, if future rail-sevice
cuts don't see the Settle and Carlisle line
being axed, as has been threatened from time
to time.
Chris Veale
ICU OFFICIAL
CAMBODIA
COLLECTION
T O D A Y
proceeds go to OXFAM for
the relief of the victims of
the famine in Cambodia.
HUMAN RIGHTS MOTION
The Human Rights Motion presented
at the last U G M will be brought to the
next UGM on November 27th. Copies
of the United Nations Universal
Declaration of Human Rights are
available from the Union Office or me:
Tim Hillyer, Maths 3.
STOP PRESS
Two squash courts in the
Sports Centre are now
available to be booked.
PHOTOSOC
Next Wednesday (November 21st), we
will be visiting the Royal College of Art
photographic department in Cromwell
Road. The people going will be shown
around the place and there should be
an opportunity to take some pictures of
models (who will hopefully be
provided). There is a limit to the
number of people who may go, so
please sign up on the list on the
Photosoc noticeboard (Union ground
floor, by Gents toilet) as soon as
possible.
TOUCHSTONE
W I L L B E H O L D I N G A
M U S I C A N D L I T E R A T U R E
W E E K E N D E N T I T L E D
' M O D E R N M U S I C A N D
L I T E R A T U R E - L U N A C Y
O R C O N S P I R A C Y ? O N
2 4 - 2 5 t h N O V E M B E R A T
S I L W O O D P A R K .
12

