With Rag Week well in progress now here's news of the next big event to look forward to
at Imperial. From the 29th November to the 6th December ICU is presenting
Environmental Week.
A quick flick through the pages of any of the big nationals will turn up news on progress,
development and decisions all concerning the Environment. These issues will affect the
quality and type of life we will all have and shape the future.
It isn't news to anyboby that this is a critical and crucial time for these issues. What is ihe
future of nuclear power after the Three Mile Island incident? What about the 250 sq. km
area proposed for mining in Belvoir-is it the jobs.the coal or the view which is more
important?^ With a proposed cut in the grant to London Transport what is the future of tho-
buses? WlAk.
These and other current issues affect people in every department in this.college in every
subject. Environmental Week has daily debates and discussions on all the topics which
concern you, with views from both sides.
The subjects range from 'the chemical aspects of faiming and food production' to the
nuclear power question and Britain's future energy policy. For each topic we have the
speakers that really matter; Sir Derek Ezra, David Owen, The Lord Flowers, Tom Burke,
Prof Scorer, Dr Goddard, Mr North from ADAS, Mr Sandford from the GLC and many
more. Also featured will be an Env Fair on Wed 5th December. At this, over a pint of
beer, you can meet many environmentalists and researches, see relevant films, listen to
speeches etc etc. So keep this date free. This week will also have its action spot. The
weekend of the 1st and 2nd of December all those interested can go and effectively
create an adventure playground for London children. Building structures, painting
murals etc means it should be great fun.
In next week' FELIX we will be putting in part 1 of the ENV WEEK PULL OUT. This will
give a run down of the topics for discussion,times.venues and speakers. So watch out for
this and keep the dates free in your diary and also look out for the dayglow posters which
you will be going up shortly.
Last week we published two env articles, one being an anti-nuclear argument. During the
week you will be able to hear both sides to the argument allowing you to construct your
own personal opinion. This is what env week is all about so turn up and take part.
E
N
V
R
O
N W
M E
E E
N K
T
A
L
The Amazing Adventures of Captain Inadequate
THE ViCTDRTA A ALBERT MUSEUM £KPU>bE5 INTO
FKASMEMB OF STDN£\0=VEMJNQ A STRANGE",
Oe/STAUJNE LAMDSCAPF....
—wp
NOW LOOK WHAT\_f WOOLbN'T IT HN/E B€EN MOK&
You've PONE- r-i AS-metic TO MAVE eumeb T H E
YOU'VE- BROKEN / \ CAPITAL ELMS'?
Iff

