IMPERIAL COLLEGE BILLIARDS AND
SNOOKER CLUB
To be or not to be, that was the question.
The answer: NO! The league no longer exists.
That thunderously popular plaything of
S a n s h i t T e a p o t h a s c e a s e d b e y o n d
reasonable doubt, to exist. But still, IC A and
B teams managed to play friendlies. The A
team played L S E . Jeffrey Donald Stlkes
Keymer played first and I must say', he does
seem to have lost some of his cuddliness
maybe due to his visit to the 'Clinic' but he still
managed to thwape his opponent who was a
bit good; OK! Second on was Chris Von Tripp
who was heard humming 'My Balls are Alive
With the Sound of Music', but this didn't affect
his screwing or positional 'fore'play and he
won by kilometres. Next to the table strode
Dave 'Burton on the Button' Crosslove, in a
matching two-piece suit in pretty brown (crap
coloured). Continually grooming himself, he
spiffingly won the match - jolly good show.
Onto the table came Teapot, who was told
'get down from the table. You're not in the
jungle now'. Getting down, he removed his
banana and picked up his cue. He won easily
on the bwown. Last o n was Martin (by special
request) Pwoudlove. His head came through
the door followed a minute later by the rest of
his body. He shrunk to his normal seven feet
and started with the game where he easily
beat his opponent (in the head maybe!).
Team: G Keymuir (Capt), C Tripe, D
Crosswire, S Teapot and M Proudlover.
The B team played Charing Cross. It was
only friendly so after Leclezio has beaten up a
few of his own team members, they got down
to the serious business in hand. Alan ' J R R
Tolkein' Leclezio, who has often given cloth
ripping performances, said during the match
'this is even more enjoyable than being a
garden gnome'. I can't believe that
blasphemy, and if fairyland find out, I'm sure
King Fairy will banish him to Gobbledy
Gobbledy land. But he won anyway.
There's always one in the team and Uncle
Bulgaria has produced a real nurd specimen
this season. Tomsk committed the cardinal
sin of losing and must suffer the inevitable
penalty - a compulsory season ticket to
Chelsea Football club (no flogging it to
Sanshit).
How could Chris Calvert follow this! He
couldn't: Our Sekretry Steve Jeans did. What
a Brutus he is. He wrangled some good
moves and gained some leeway. He levied the
game his way and after some FUs from the
audience, he won to make the score 2-1.
How could our mild mannered ace Seamus
Armstrong follow this (note repetition). He
just looked his opponent in the eyes and
Seamus' gloomy smirk, froze to a redundant
plazma, his opponent. His opponent was just
lovelost and the games was of no mor
interest, so Seamus won. (I hear his
opponent has a broken heart). Last o n was
Krezewski and after ten minutes name
bartering, he beat hs opponent to a
degenerate, wormeaten, wombat do's pulp.
Team. A Leclezy, T McLemon, S Genius
(Capt), St Headstrong and J Crezoosky.
On Saturday the Snooker Plus Tournament
otherwise known as Trippy's pocket money
session was held. Initially only six people
turned up, but this was increased to nine, so
we formed three groups of three. In my group,
Alice, Damian 'Omen 2' Kelly and I. Alice
'Goldilocks' Cameron was one up against me
when Sanshit decided to form a knock-out
competition so using expletives like s....t,
b....t.d, c...t, f..k.r and w..k.r, Alice forced
Sanshit to feebly apologise and the
competition continued, the final was played
early on between Tripp and Keymer which
was traumatically won by Tripp.
Earlier on, in the quarter finals, Alice
brought off a formidable humiliating two-nil
victory over 'Chalky' T^elock and was heard
to iterate, 'I'll let my rockets off tonight' and I
CROSS COUNTRY
After a bit of struggle, having arrived at
Guildford with only two runners due to their
being another race on in London as well, we
managed to get together a team for the Stag
Hill relay after meeting Mark Pickard there
who opted to run twice and by borrowing
another two runners.
The race was a 6x2mile relay and was on
the roads around the campus and was a very
fast course.
The first runner off was Gary Longhurst
who strolled round coming in in a mediocre
20th position to hand over to Mark Pickard
who as usual ran well bringing the team up to
7th position as he handed over to Russ
Weston who ran well against a very fast field
coming in 19th.
The fourth runner off was Dave Barret who
also found the course rather fast coming in
24th handing over to our guest runner Derek
TENPIN BOWLING
A promising 8-2 defeat. The club played its
first Universities and Colleges T B A match
last Saturday home to Brunei. For a change
the organisation went well, perhaps too well,
giving us three full mens' teams, the full
ladies' team and even two reserves. On top of
this everyone arrived on time (just) despite
the Secretary's amazing navigation - from
Princes Gardens to Hammersmith Bridge via
Battersea Bridge!
So far, so good. Then the match started.
The first game (of three) looked hopeful. The
first team were continuing from their success
of last year. The seconds also won, the ladies
did well in losing narrowly, butthethirds were
annihilated. However Brunei first and
s e c o n d s p u t u p e x c e l l e n t b o w l i n g
performances making our first struggle to get
their win. The seconds lost despite great
bowling from J o e Ng, Albert Yue and Robert
Cheng, all with 500 series: the thirds and
ladies were defeated heavily following good
fightbacks.
'A promising defeat' I said? Well, as
expected, Brunei have a strong team and had
played two matches prior to this, our first. It is
beat that wiley Irish puntanist and mod
Damian Dermot Kelly (begorrah). I got
hammered by Tripp in semis and Alice just
didn't bother to play Keymer so the
competition and it was all down to the
Denmark for a game of space invaders - It's
about time they had one in college instead of
those useless games in the Union Lounge!
The Great Gareth
who maintained the same position to hand
over to the unstoppable Mark Pickard who
managed to regain three places in a field that
was by now a bit spread out, to finish the race
in 21st position.
The race was won by Borough Road
College with their 2nd and 3rd teams
finishing 2nd and 4th, the 3rd team home was
Bristol University.
After the race we were able to fill ourselves
up at tea having tickets for two teams
although we only had one team, although this
was only after we managed to retrieve the tea
tickets which some idiot had given in with the
valuables.
Having thus indulged ourselves we bade
ourselves farewells to our guest runners and
the two of us headed back to London whilst
Mork rode off into the sunset bound for
another race.
hoped (by an optimistic Exec) that
Southampton and Portsmouth will not be so
strong. This remains to be seen.
Teams
First: Ron Johnson, John Knight, Brian
MacGowan, Danny Lau and Tubby Woo.
Second: Albert Yue, Lawrence Poon, Nigel
Heath, Robert Cheng and Joseph Ng.
Third: Neil Hunt, Ray Cook, Nigel Windsor,
J O e Wong and Tim Hillyer.
Ladies: Delia Wong, Ruby Wong, Merhala
Thurai, Marie Cheong and Louisa Lau.
And special thanks to our reserves: Robert
Thong and Paul Jeynes.
The League is progressing well; but there
are still a few vacancies in teams. Of course
everyone is welcome to come along.
Transport arrangements have altered slightly
in that minibuses and/or cars will leave Aero
(opposite Beit Arch) on Wednesdays at 2:30
prompt.
See you there,
Tim.
PS - If any of the Exec bowl a sub - 100 game
in the League or in a match, the guilty party
will stand a round in Stans.
IC SAILING CLUB
The first event of the season, the Foot
Trophy was held at the Welsh Harp Reservoir,
last S a t u r d a y a n d S u n d a y , 10-11 th
November. This three boat team event
attracted sixteen entries from as far away as
Cornwall and Rochdale, and included-an IC
team, and the U L 1st team which has four IC
members. Teams were split into two groups
of eight with the top two in each group going
into the semi-finals.
IC's first match was against the much
fancied Wembley 1st team, which we won.
This was followed by easy wins over United
Hopitals and Cambridge, two very close
matches. This completed the first day's
programme, with two more qualifying
matches to come, and our chances of
qualifying still in the balance.
In Sunday morning's first match, the U L
ladies put up no opposition at all, but we were
well beaten by Granchester (ex Cambridge)
in the final match. This put us fourth in our
group, and so we failed to qualify.
UL 1sts, meanwhile, qualified with only one
defeat, but lost narrowly in the semi-final to
eventual winners Custaways (consisting of
ex U L members).
All in all this was a promising start to the
season by IC against some very good
opposition.
IC team: John Williams (Captain), Dave
Culshaw, Alan Beaney, Nick Ajderian, James
Baxter, and Colin Murray.
UL 1sts team: Dave Derby (IC), Geoff
Titmuss (IC), Jan Robson (IC), Chris Lewis
(IC), Mark Rushall (Chelsea) and A N Other
(UC).
15

