oAnniversary
J"ELIX dinner
FRIDA T DECEMBER 7th
Can't be missed! Meet for sherry at 7:00pm in
Southside SCR, for the FELIX Dinner which will he
given in the Southside Senior Dining Hall at
7:30pm.
Tickets £6.00. Cheques made payable to Imperial
College Publications Board (FELIX).
SUB-WARDEN, SELKIRK HALL
Applications are invited for the
post which will be vacant on 1
January 1980 due to the departure
from College of the present Sub-
Warden, Nicky Barrett. The Hall is
one of the South Side Halls of
Residence with at present, 28
women and 44 men students.
Normally the post would be held
by a full-time student of at leat one
year p o s t g r a d u a t e s t a n d i n g .
However, exceptional applicants
falling outside this category will
be considered.
Rent free accommodation in the
form of a small self-contained flat
will be provided. The essential
duties are to assist the warden in
the running of the hall, which is
run as a community. All residents
who wish, may attend committee
meetings at which decisions are
made affecting hall life.
Further details can be obtained
from the Warden or Sub-Warden.
Written applications containing
all i n f o r m a t i o n c o n s i d e r e d
relevant should reach the Warden,
S H Perry as soon as possible.
A E R O S O C P A P E R D A R T S
COMPETITION
MONDAY 19 NOV BEIT QUAD
12:30
3rds SMASH 2nds
O n a very wet and windy day, against all
odds the 3rds set about to disrupt the 2nds
play with some vicious tackling. Playing with
the wind in the first half, the 3rds ran rings
round the 2nds static midfield. The break
through came when A Betts failed to hold on
to fierce shot from Esberger and D McPhail
ran into score. A typical sparkling run from
Armstrong left Merrit with a clear cut chance
who blasted the ball home. After the break the
wind got worse and the battle then looked all
uphill, especially as P Lakin brilliantly guided
a looping cross into his own goal.
Immediately after the restart, A Donaldson
headed in from a corner to make the score 3-
1. At this point the 2nds started to play a little,
with an effort from D Dean just skimming the
outside of the post, but the defence held out
like the Berlin Wall. With time running out for
the 2nds, tempers began to fray with Phil
Niccolls boiling over but the situation was
soon rectified when A Cable dealt with him
accordingly. Then with a good move up the
left hand side from A Phillips and A
Donaldson, D McPhail ran in to tap home his
second which wrapped it up 4-1.
Rules and Prizes
1) MAX RANGE WINS-Prize is 50%
of takings.
2) Darts to be made of PAPER and
SELLOTAPE, or GLUE.
3) Darts to be MAX LENGTH 2ft,
MAX WINGSPAN 2ft.
4) First 2 Throws 10p - Subsequent
throws 5p.
5) Competitors must agree to abide
by judges decisions.
6) In the interests of safety each
competitor is requested to obey
the directions of marshalls.
MUSICIANS - POP, JAZZ, ROCK,
FOLK GROUPS - A CHANCE TO
APPEAR ON STOIC!
STOIC are inviting groups interested
in appearing on TV and entertaining
the students of IC through this, to
come along to the studios to do a
session of their kind of music. Groups
will be appearing most weeks on our
Thursday lunchtime programme. (Not
to be missed.) So, all budding
musicians take steps now by
contacting JIM DONALDSON, Chem
1, via the letter racks in that
department, or pop along to the
studios some lunch break. Please leave
your names, departments and then we
can start organising something. We do
hope that members of various music
clubs in College take part in this
exciting enterprise.
RUGBY
IMPERIAL COLLEGE 2nds
BEATEN BY RCS:
7 - 19
A couple of late fixture cancellations meant
that IC 2nds faced the mighty R C S rugby
machine in a needle-match at Harlington.
R C S were out to prove that their unfeeaten
record was no fluke, and IC were trying to
erase the memory of a humiliating 70 points
defeat the previous week. After scoring a
penalty in the first five minutes, it looked as
though the underdogs might be in with a
chance. However, R C S soon moved into the
lead with a try by Tim Latham, following a
superb run along the wing by Robin 'Boy
Wonder' Richards. Will Price increased this
lead when he crossed the IC line from a five
yard scrum. Going into the second half with
the wind behind them, R C S were looking for a
big score. The continuous pressure on the IC
defence led to one or two scuffles, but the
referee kept the game under control. Robin
Richards scored the try he had earned in the
first half, after a particularly uncoordinated
IC threequarter had dropped the ball. A Tim
Latham penalty made the score 15-3. IC
managed to get back into the game briefly
and Bob Thomas, IC's best player by far,
became the first man to cross the R C S line
this season. There was never any chance of a
shock defat for R C S , and Paul Holley.soiled
the victory with a try in the final njnutes,
making the final score 19-7 to R C S .
Finally, everybody in R C S rugby w o u n like
to congratulate John Norton on being
appointed captain of IC 2nds. They would
also like to remind him that he left R C S 'in
order to play for a winning team'.
Tim Latham

