THE
SHORT-LIFE
HOUSING
GROUP
The aims of the short-life housing group
are:
1. TO FIND UNUSED PROPERTY
Finding houses is easy! All you do is walk
around with your eyes open with a pencil and
paper at hand.
2. TO DISCOVER THE OWNERS
The council are a useful source of
information, or just ask the local people.
3. TO PERSUADE THE OWNERS T O ALLOW
THE GROUP TO USE THE HOUSES
This is sometimes the most difficult as some
people take a bit of persuading.
4. TO MAKE ANY NECESSARY REPAIRS
Obviously, the time that the property is
available for is an important factor. If it is
available for over five years then we are
eligible for a Mini-Housing Association Grant
(Mini-HAG). For shorter periods, only a few
councils give you a grant.
5. TO LIVE IN THEM
Normally the occupants pay only the rates
and bills with a small rent being payable to the
Group. This would in fact add up to about five
pounds a week.
The advantages of this scheme are that it
gives you the chance to work as part of a
group and with people outside college. There
are many people with useful skills such as
plumbing and plastering etc., on the dole who
have more time than students. Two
successes of the group are at:
1. Shepherdess Walk, Hackney: These
houses are in a bad state of repair, but with
the aid of grants and a lot of support they are
beginning to be habitable.
2. East Sheen: At the other end of the 33 bus
route. A four bedroom house, which needs
minimal painting and wall-papering but
wiring may need attention, any offers of help
would be appreciated.
If you want a cheap place to stay for next
year then you have to start NOW! Interested
person, please see Michael Arthur, Welfare
Centre.
Jan Czernuszka
At the time of writing Rag Week is almost
here and several people in RCS are looking
knackered already. This is simply a result of
too few people trying to do too much be it
concerned with Jez, the rag float, Broadsheet
or rag collecting.
This is a situation which cannot be allowed
to develop into one which many large
nebulous institutions will appeal for help, the
response to which is a surfeit of willing
volunteers. They come along only to be told
by the clique at the top that everything is fine
and their help is not needed. Insult is added to
injury when they are later told that the job was
done by the same old people.
As I am sure you apppreciate by now, RCS
is not like this and any cliques that do exist
are eminently joinable. Over the next week
you can prove this for yourself by supporting
the rag events which specifially involve RCS.
Start this afternoon and tomorrow morning
by helping with our rag float (in the office)
and continue by going on the procession in
the afternoon (collect cans from the office
' from 12:00 hours onwards).
Support would also be welcome for the raft
race on Sunday and if your Exec let you down
in anyway you can always take your revenge
by torturing them on Thursday lunchtime.
Lots of support is also required on Tuesday
for the disgusting games at lunchtime -
makes a change from a Mooney and for the
Fox/O'Boyle insignificant event in the
evening.
Ending on a bright note Steve White
collected over £100 for rag last weekend and
a showdown with Zoshia is expected soon.
On the subject of chemists our Ents
Chairman in his infinite wisdom is organising
a night out to see 'The Life of Brian' on
December 4th, so watch out for details or ask
your Soc Reps.
If you have any complaints about the Union
or you're just naturally inquisitive you can
find most people that matter and a few that
don't in the Union Bar most Sunday evenings
after Officer's meetings.
See you there!
Nick Watmough
CITY AND GUILDS
Last week was quite quiet as far as Guilds
were concerned with the only event of note
being the Lord Mayors/GUILDS Show where
as one of the two free student entries we
showed London who GUILDS are. We were
seen doing a Boomalaka by about 10,000,000
people on BBC TV and some of us were
shown in close-up (the stardom is going to
our heads). The show was great fun and
thanks to all those who helped build the float.
ON to all the future events....
SATURDAY 17th is the Rag Procession,
starting from the Union Office at 11:30. This
time we have a street collection licence so we
would like as many people to turn up and
collect as possible.
SUNDAY 18th has the inter C C U raft race at
10:00am in Princes Gardens so come along to
cheer us along. There is a rugby match in the
afternoon with some star names, so meet at
Beit Arch at 11:15am if you want to go and
watch.
MONDAY is the Aerosoc Paper Darts
Competition at iunchtime in Beit Quad, so
any budding aircraft designers should make
one and turn up.
TUESDAY sees the day we present some
really disgusting competitions In the Quad at
lunchtine.
THURSDAY is the Exec torture when buckets
of yeuch are put all over the Exec members
everyone loves or hates.
FRIDAY is the GUILDS' Carnival, tickets
should still be on sale at £2.50 from the Union
Office so hurry up and don't miss this
astounding event.
HIT SQUAD
If you want anyone hit with a custard pie
during Rag Week contact Mr N Kalsi or Mr P
Leggett in the GUILDS Office with details of
who you want hit, where they can be found at
various times and any other helpful
information. The prices are as follows:
50p students
£1.00 notables (ie Exec members etc)
£5.00 lecturers (they must agree to be hit)
£25.00 Lord F s
Bryan
C&GU Publicity Officer
THE BRAIN DRAIN
SQUASH COURTS
Temporary repairs have now been made to
two of the courts, and these are now available
for use.
ROOM BOOKINGS
Any member of the Union can book rooms
in the building (and JCR) to hold a party etc.
free of charge, but a deposit is required in
case of any damage being down or mess not
being cleared up properly.
I must stress this point about cleaning up
after parties; on Sunday night someone using
the JCR made no attempt at cleaning up and
did a considerable amount of damage, which
has resulted in them being fined £140. (The
cleaners felt so strongly about the mess, they
wrote a letter: See letters' page).
BOOKSHOP
Some people have commented to me that
the bookshop doesn't stock (or often runs out
of) b o o k s w h i c h are p a r t i c u l a r l y
recommended by their department. Any
suggestions on this matter (or any other ways
in which people think that the bookshop
could be improved) should be given (in
written form!) to their Year Academic Rep or
Departmental Rep who will hand them on to
me.
NOISE
% Some Beit residents have complained to
me about the amount of noise made by some
people leaving the Union late at night,
particularly as they go through the Archway
(which I live directly above). My solution is
simple: I've put a bucket of water on the
balcony outside my room. Watch out!
MALCOLM
UNIVERSITY
CHALLENGE
FREE TRIP TO
MANCHESTER
ICU is taking part in University
Challenge and Granada TV is
providing a coach, leaving Union
Archway, Beit Hall, at 1:00 p.m,
next Wednesday, 21st November.
Names to JEN, IC Union Office.

