SOCIETIES
Community
Action Group
Sorry about any misunderstandings last Friday
at the Soup Run, they will continue as normal
every Tuesday and Friday from now on.
Things on this term:
Every Saturday afternoon: Acton Youth
Club for mentally handicapped and able
children. Great fun for those who are still
children at heart.
Tiddlywinks is taking place tomorrow
(Saturday). Anybody wishing to participate
should meet at the R C S U Office at 9:00am.
The collection is in aid of MENCAP.
Congratulations to the small but effective
crowd who went to Canterbury—you raised
£223.
Anyone who has purchased a freshers'
dinner ticket is entitled to go to the party after
the Life Sci Dinner in the JCR tonight. It will
probably start about 10:00pm. Tickets are still
available for the Chemistry and Physics
Dinners—see your Dep Rep.
I hope all Guildsmen and Guildswomen, in
fact, everybody, enjoyed the start of term.
Here are some dates for your diary.
Tiddlywinks is now most certainly on. Meet at
the C & G Union Office in Mech Eng, above the
clock, at 9:00am on Saturday October 16. On
Saturday evening you are all cordially invited
to a Guilds Pub Crawl around the general
area. Further details of these two events will
appear in Guildsheet which will be out on
Thursday morning. A Rag Mag selling trip will
take place on Saturday October 23 with the
new Rag Mags! This will be to Oxford
University. On Tuesday Octobefc26 there will
be the first Guilds General Committee meeting
of the year in the Union Dining Hall 6:00 for
6:30pm. There will also be a trial, at the next
Guilds U G M on November 4. The trial will be
of special interest to anybody who may (or
may not) be guilty of losing Kings mascot
Reggie to RCS last week. See you there!
Tomorrow morning is the tiddlywinks of
course, for which the details hopefully will be
advertised elsewhere in this issue of FELIX.
Next Saturday night, October 23, brings yet
another JCR Party but this time the Mines/IF
Painted Face Party which should be fun if
nothing else. May I also remind our freshers
that Wednesday night is traditionally Mines'
night in the Union Bar, so those of you who
haven't introduced yourselves yet will find a
welcome there every week.
NB: Geology Freshers Dinner is tonight with
Met & Mat Sci next week, and Min Res Eng on
October 29. See you all there.
Every Wednesday afternoon: helping at St
Pancras Hospital on the old peoples ward.
Occasional events: supporting Age Concern
and Task Force helping with odd jobs for old
people, visiting old people at an old peoples
home on High Street Kensington.
Though most of these events occur
regularly every week, you don't have to
commit yourself to go every week, only when
you have the time and energy.
If you're interested in any of the above come
along to the meeting every Monday at 12:30pm
in the Rag Committee Room, top of the Union.
Do come. It's great fun.
SF Soc
Dancing
Don't think that this is a small club with a few
fanatics who have done it all before. Far from
it, the Dancing Club is one of the largest clubs
at IC, usually attracting nearly one hundred
students interested in starting from scratch. It
is also a great place to meet people from
outside IC as the club also caters for a lot of
nurses' homes and smaller colleges in London.
Not only can you learn the traditional
ballroom dances like the waltz and foxtrot,
but also the modern Latin American dance like
the cha cha and jive.
We have several social events during the
year (apart from the gatherings in the bar after
classes) including a dinner dance, barn dance
and visits to support our team at the
intervarsity competition balls.
If any of you have danced before do come to
our advanced classes. We are always on the
lookout for new talent for our competition
team.
There's no need to have a partner as you
constantly change partners during classes so
you meet everyone.
Ah! You might well ask—what is the meaning
of Life, the Universe and Everything? Certainly
not the rather facile answer that Douglas
Adams provides in those little wads of toilet
paper you've all been reading so avidly. And, in
the grand tradition of this so well known and
beloved column, I certainly don't intend to
answer them—but this is straying from the
point. What isn't in these times of atrition we
are all struggling through? Perhaps it was this
that forced me to divulge my real identity to
the young girl with blue eyes. If she would like
to divulge her identity to me could she please
drop a note in the biochemistry letter-racks
ynder 'A'.
Herpes the Dog Goddess
Audio
After the amazing success/dismal failure of last
T u e s d a y ' s meeting we w i l l / w i l l not be
continuing in the same manner. So this
Tuesday, October 12, we'll be taking it
easy/winning World War 3 in the Quiet Room,
Level 0, Sherfield Building. Where you can
decide to join us/ask where Angie is (I don't
know I keep telling you), or, order records at
incredible/pathetic/cheap prices through our
new record club. As a member you will be able
to get discount/preferential treatment from
Subjective Audio, the club's own H i - F i
consultants. Later we'll be going to the Union
Bar/Southside/Queens/Gloucester (all of
them?) for a chat/drink/pick up. But just to
prove that we're second Celestion Inter-
national will give a demonstration and
discussion.' Watch this space.
Bookshop
News
When you have paid for your items, they
must be put in a bag. You must have a receipt,
which you should keep in case of query.
Don't get up-tight with my staff, if after a
week you decide to change an item, and you
haven't got the receipt. You have been
". . . . warned; and don't try and change items
If I may air my usual gnevances at the b m j ^ t e ) s e w h e r e
beginning of term N o w for t h e d n e w s
This year, lecturers recommended approx
1300 titles plus their stationery items. In a shop S t a r
Choice
of this size, with that number, we have to put *Christman already - Gray Jolliffe, Arrow
them wherever there is space, so please be Books £1
patient with my staff. None of us know where The first Jewish Christmas book for nearly
every title is, and it may take time to find it. But 2,000 years.
find it we will. Carry on Yomping-Blandford 95p
If you cannot find a book, tell me. Certain Dicing with Dragons-Livingstone, RKP £3.95
lecturers do not inform the Bookshop of their / counted them all out and I counted them all
recommendations; therefore until students tell back-Hanrahan & Fox £1.95
us, we do not know that a particular title is Lantern Lecture-Mars-Jones, Picador £1.95
needed. i Aries Rising - Herzog, Pan £1.50
Recommended book prices range-from Secret Seruanr-Lyall, Pan £1.50
£1.25 to £50.00. Don't blame me, publishers Pascal programs for scientists & engineers-
set their prices, and I have to abide by their Miller, Sybex £12.70
decision. Your first computer-Zaks, Sybex £7.75
I don't like the turnstiles, my staff don't like Introduction to Word Processing-Glatzer,
them. But unfortunately, it is a sign of the Sybex £11.45
times. If you want something, please don't take Basic programs for scientists & engineers-
it; and when asked, say you were going to Miller, Sybex £11.50
come back on Saturday and pay. We don't International Micrcomputer Dictionary-Sybex
open on Saturday! £4.75
Please don't try and take the price labels off, For readers of FELIX 5%. May I recommend
it will only ruin your nails. to the illustrious gentleman concerned a new
Ensure you have the right items when you title: The English Madam—Cynthia Payne,
pay. We cannot change items every five Cape £7.50 (to order only). The bookshop will
minutes because you thought it was right, accept luncheon vouchers for this title only.
FELIX O c t o b e r 15, 1982 P o g e 7

