ILuCICS: DOIT* T FORG3T I O r A ' E J ^ T I O E S 3N BJXBSCLtf
' " SVffWGIWG- SOUTH SIDE COFFEEf BAR- - A,. •
- T h i s week a:.Mooney-run coffee bar opered in South Side, snack bar. It is being
run by Lesley, who was-/'South Side barmaid. The coffee bar /remains - open to 10.30 and
is intended to provide a meeting place for students in the evenings.
OARM^/AL:HE.;\DI]m-rOR k£5
Saturday's Carnival Fete in Princes Gardens Will.be the''last Carnival event
this year, apart from the Carnival Dance which follows,The Pete w i l l have the usual
side-shows and events and i n particular there w i l l be a Cabaret by Greek-Soc.The
main event w i l l be the raffle draw;Leukaemia may be able to supply Battle Jacques
to draw.
A l l the raffle prizes w i l l be on display i n the garden, especially the colour
television which w i l l be working. The-Fete' starts at"2 o'clock and a l l raffle tickets
must be i n by A o'clock on Saturday to 642 Tizard,
Under Chris Palmer's leadership the Carnival has so far totalled "4,400 and i s
confident of making 55*000 possibly £ 5 , 5 0 0 t h i s compares well with £ 3 , 4 0 0 last year.
The TRAFFIC are billed for the Carnival dance.
TELEPHONE DIRECTORY DIRECTIONS
As new directories are now coming around, you w i l l no doubt be wishing to tear
up your old ones. Amateurs always complain that they are sure they could do i t i f
only they could get started, The t r i c k is to grasp the book by the spine and break
i t : t h i s starts the tear. This, i s a FELIX information note.
SOUTH SIDE TO BE G L U E D MORE STRONGLY
Investigation by the maintenance department has shown that some of the masonary
facing blocks on the outside of the building are not as securely fixed as would be
desirable. Work w i l l proceed to put this right. In the meantime a scaffolding has
been erected which i s intended to act as a barrier to keep students using the lower
gallery within the overhang of the building.
Lr Butler has asked maintenance to see that there w i l l not be too much noise
during exam time.
N
O O E H S Q R S I H P A T I.C.
As reported i n the main issue Ray Phillips cleared up the question of the calls
for IC Peace Action Group, The Union received a phone call from the Press wanting
information about the Dow Chemicals affair.Phillips gave instructions that i t , and
any other calls on the subject, should be diverted to Miss Nolan, the IC Press
Officer. Consequently when Pam, the Union recexotionist, received a call asking to
speak to a member of the Peace Action Group about this subject, she had the call
transferred to Miss Nolan. No censorship of any kind was intended.
IETIERS
Dear Sir, Dear Sir,
Jurely, my honorary award of the I write with reference to Mr
"WC and chain" must go to the organisers Redmayne's proposed motion abandoning
of the May Ball for the chaotic and the idea of UGM's,
disorganised affair last Friday night. I cannot help thinking that this motion
A mixed up programme can be forgiven, is bowing to the present apathetic trend,
but not the admission of numerous informally The net effect w i l l be to place power even
dressed people, and the high level of opo more firmly in the hands of a few,and to
music that reduced the evening to the l e v e l increase disinterest in(or alternatively
of a "Hop". increase dissatisfaction with? the Union.
When I and most other people pay 5 So,the way to tackle the problem i s to
guineas to go to a formal function, I combat the apathy.Reverse the present
expect to see everyone elso in formal dress trend.Isuggest better publicity;for
and a greater degree of classy ballroom example,verbal announcements via year reps
music instead of common or garden opo before kectures,etc.Moreover,I think
churned out a l l night, that publication of UGM f u l l agenda and
Yours sincerely, f u l l minutes on a l l de artmental notice
laul Mellor EE1 boards would stimulate interest in ICU
Dear Sir, affairs.
Could we please point ou that the At present, there is far too much
ghetto-like mentality of 'Angelicus' in dithering at Union meetings.A more lively,
the latest edition of Phoenix is neither less boring procedure might attract some
the attitude of the Catholic Society nor members.
of the Church as a whole. He assume that The policy of appealing to students to
i t was meant as a joke,in very poor taste, attend the meetings has been shown to be a
We hope that i t w i l l be taken as such by failure-no wonder why when one looks at
its readers. the meetings as they are hold at present1
J.K. Wilkinson * Instead,make i t worth one's while to take
C.J.Washington(publicity officers- an interest i n Union affairs. Then,
Cathsoc) perhaps, we may see an improvement.
A.J. Kirkham,Physics I
DO NOT F0RGGT YOUR UNION MEETING C. FRIDAY 1 p.m. CONCERT HALL
LATE NEWS CONSIDERED OPINION:The motions by Phillips,Redmayne,and Mackman should
be passed. This is biased editoral opinion creeping in D.R.
DO NOT FORGET UNION MEETING ON FRID/Y 1 p.m. CONCERT HALL

