8 M A Y 1968 F E L I X
SCRUTINY
for SCC
SCRUTINY, the magazine
started by the Huxley Society,
then taken over by SCC "as a
forum for political, moral and
religious discussion," has reap-
peared under the banner of the
Huxley Society as, presumably, a
forum for humanist discussion.
This, the first issue of what
might be termed in non-Humanist
terms, its present incarnation, is
devoted almost exclusively to the
Humanist basis to the ideas of
various political beliefs, although
only Glen Wellman successfully
establishes a continuous link be-
tween basic Humanist philosophy
and a recognisable political doc-
trine, in this case Conservatism.
Of the others, Peter Watts, on
Liberalism, leaves his case only
half-complete, Chris Yewlett
never even gets to the basic
principles of Socialism, let alone
produces a working policy, and
Derek Boothman starts with
Communism and begins to work
backwards, one presumes to Hu-
manism, but never gets there,
shooting off for a revolution about
a quarter of the way.
Why Humanists
The two other articles are an
introduction to the political con-
tributions by David Flint, in which
he examines the reasons for Hu-
manists holding different political
opinions whilst holding both the
same fundamental beliefs and
aims; and an article on whether
the Universe had a beginning, by
John Matthews.
SCRUTINY is on sale around
the College at Is. and can be ob-
tained from Ron Bass, Tizard
632, Pete Watts, Tizard 645 or
Chris Yewlett, Keogh 368.
SIMON W
You may have noticed this
forlorn poster in College—and
not cared Some of the people who
do care heard Jim Fitch, leader of
the Simon community, talk about
their work on Tuesday last. Jim
Fitch talked expansively about
the work of the community, which
is dedicated to helping social
drop-outs who are beyond the
effective reach of the "welfare
stat "—alcoholics, junkies, drug
addicts, misfits, kleptomaniacs—
the 90,000 people (about 5 times
the official estimates) which so-
ciety is ashamed to notice.
Six Stages
of Simon
Simon's social action takes
place in six stages : (1) Survey of
area to be helped (2) Provision of
a rough shelter for overnight rests
(3) A house with an unstructured
organization, for recovering alco-
holics etc. to " dry out" (1st tier
recovery). (4) 2nd tier recovery
—a more organized house. (5).
3rd tier recovery—a form run by
recovered core-cases. (6) A
village; this is the next stage and
is not yet in existence for com-
plete recovery. The village, when
it appears, will hold about 500 re-
covered social rejects, drop-outs,
Undergrounders, etc., and will be
in effect an experiment in living
largely (but not completely) in-
dependent of the rest of society.
Simon Walks
and Soup Runs
Simon needs help—publicity, a
London-Brighton walk for money,
surveys, workers. The first stages
of the work are most important—
establishing contact—every night
in London the soup run van goes
out to make contact with social
rejects, giving them soup, and
bread and conversation. You can
help here—come on a soup run,
read the OSS notice board. Sign
up if you care.
Information on Simon is avail
able from Tizard 621.
F E L I X
Editor: DAVID COOPER
Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Tel. K E N 2963
Asst. Editor : John Mullaly
News Editor: Paul Heath
Features:
John Sommer,
Dick Middleton,
Sports Editor : Phil Hopwood
Business Manager : Mary Ford
Late News Editor : Dick Reeves
Advertising Manager:
John Probst
Sales Manager: Chris Slee
Production Manager:
Pete Chapman
Advertising
Educational Pub
Ltd.
Photographic Editors:
John Langley and John Rogers
What's On Editor:
Pat Shanahsn
Cartoonist: Stuart Senior
Posters: Pete Brown
Duplicating Service:
Paul Miller
With : Andy Jordan, Ken Simp-
son, Rory Redmayne, Colin
Broad, Steve Chittock, (TCeitih
Rowan, Caroline and Val.
Agency:
licity (Partners)
CHA 6081
f \ E D I T O R ' S
Uommen
Once upon a time many years ago a o'srnber of colleges and
Universities came together and, with the help of a good Fairy, set
up a big organisation called the National Union of Students. \nd
Imperial Cinderella was asked to join the N.U.S. and as she liked ills'
and things she did, and for many years she and all the other colleges
and Universities were very happy together.
Then one day the big nasty ogre. Communism, came along and
frightened away nearly all those happy colleges and Universities. But
the few who were left were brave and fought the big, bad ogre and
threw him out.
When they heard what had happened all the other colleges and
Universities crept gingerly back, all, that is, except for Imperial
Cinderella who had by this time decided she could survive on her own
and obstinately refused to come back. No amount of wooing with
cheap travel and student concessions by Prince Charming N.U.S.
would persuade her. Not that you could blame her. Prince
Charming had warts all over his face and was so incredibly inefficient
and became avaricious, wanting 1 /3d, then 2/6d, and then 5/-d. per
year per student.
But then Prince Charming began to realise about the warts on
his face and decided to do something about them. He split his
organisation into regions and decided it was time he actually did
something for the colleges whom he had attracted.
Then when the big, bad Department of Education and Science
thwarted all the Colleges with a Grants Cut, Prince Charming went
out to fight him. And Imperial Cinderella, being unable to find a
Quorum, did not know what to think about the Grants Cut. So she
asked Prince Charming, and Prince Charming welcomed her help with
about a dozen people at the Battle of Trafalgar Square and twenty at
the Battle of the Houses of Parliament.
The point of all this is that N.U.S. is changing, but is our attitude
to it? I.C. has always been insular, but I think that in the past we
have been right to stay out of N.U.S.
We must guard against being isolationists, but on the other hand
let us be sure that if we join, and someone is due to bring it up
next session, the money invested is worth it.
Much good work is at present being done by them. They have
produced numerous pamphlets on subjects affecting students, for
instance the Rent Act, and are recognised as the voice of students in
Britain. They will shortly be publishing an important report on
student housing, and are currently investigating and negotiating on
grants, length of degree courses and many other subjects which affect
students directly.
Of course they are still incredibly inefficient. Letters are seldom
answered and over half of their income goes on administration, while
their conferences seem to be more a succession of procedural motions
than anything else.
Although we will probably be able to get the affiliation fees added
to the Union Fee there will be other expenses like conference fees.
I hope that this wiH stimulate people into thinking rationally
about the N.U.S. question. Without the red herrings of travel concte
sions which, as Martin Lack last year showed, are no better whether
you belong to N.U.S. or not.
" H o w d o I t u r n
m y g r a n t c h e q u e i n t o m o n e y ?
The"best thing any Freshman can do with
his first grant cheque is take it into the
nearest branch of Westminster Bank and
openacurrentaccount.
For one thing, other people are going to want
to pay you money in the future. Most ofthem
will paybycheque—and this will go on beingan
embarrassment until the day when you finally
open anaccount.
Much more important, a cheque-book is still
the easiest way of paying out money. You no
longer have to carry a lot of loose cash in your
pocket which can get lost or squandered away
on trifles. Instead, your cash stays where it
• »s, sale in die Bank and die < heque-book
i : i t pocket still lets f m buj ' rl i • you want,
Vtfe'll h e l p y o u
merit tells you where the money went; and this
toohelps you to save.
It makes you feel taller
Later, your Westminster Manager will be able
to give you advice on how to make those savings
grow. He will become a trustedfriend (this is not
flannel; he will) who can give you practical help
atthe times whenyou needit most-duringyour
years at University, and throughout your life.
Besides these (and other) practical advantages
a Westminster cheque-book gives you some-
thing just as important: status. It proves that
you are an established adult in your own right
This can be a very considerable asset.
Ifyou are interested, then we suggestyou callon
your nearest Westminster Manager—orfillin the
coupon on the right. $
We'll help you ...inansortsofways.
Find out more by sending us the coupon
I now, and we'll send you our free booklet
J ON USING YOUR BANK.
i To: Westminster Bank Limited,
| 41 Lothbury, London, E.c.2
Please sendmeyour FREE LEAFLETS.
1 NAME •
ADDRESS

