4 F E L I X
8 M A Y 1968
r
s
BOB PINE
Bob came to Guilds as a Civil Engineer after a year in industry. In his first
year he was the scrum half for I.C. Ist X V and played for Guilds in the Sparkes
Cup. For his part in Guilds victory in the Athletics Sports he was awarded Guilds
Sports colours; this year he is the secretary of Guilds Athletics Club.
At the end of his first year he was elected year rep. and then captain of I.C.
Rugby Club. The club has had a successful season and Bob has worked hard to
help all the teams not just the 1st X V . Bob feels that this has been a good proving
ground for a job as the President of Guilds. It has tested his organisation; the
Rugby Club is the largest club in I.C. and as any such position in sport would do
it has tested his leadership. He has also had the opportunities to meet and to get
to know people not just from the constituent colleges but from outside Colleges
and Universities as well.
Bob has not confined his interests solely to the
Rugby Club but he is on the executive committee
of A.C.C. and as such has had a say in the general
and financial organisation of the whole sports
structure of I.C.
Bob is unashamedly a sportsman in the widest
sense of the word and although he has not been
much involved in the politics of Guilds and I.C.
he does not feel that this would be a drawback to
his becoming President of Guilds. He believes
that this post is not a political one but rather the
mouthpiece for the Union which in turn has been
formed mainly for the material and intellectual
benefit of Guildsmen.
If jdl33ted Bob jhas several plans for strengthening the union. He hopes to
establish a more dynamic initial contact with the first year Guildsmen; this done,
would aid the union in years to come. He would also like to increase the range
of entertainment provided by Guilds by getting Departments to organise new
events for themselves and the rest of Guilds. This would also increase the contact
between years within a Department and by organising it on an interdepartmental
competitive basis would increase the Guilds " spirit."
Bob would also like to see the old favourites of Morphy Day, the Field Cup
and the Swimming Gala revitalised. Finally he would continue to push for more
financial support and continue the good work achieved by Guilds in the staff-
student relations.
GUILDS
DERMOTT CORR
Guilds Union Meetings are quite well known for their " sport." Guildsmen
who have botheredft>attend them could not have failed to notice a broad Irish voice
in the midst of the organised disorder. This voice belongs to DERMOTT CORR.
one of this year's Guilds Presidential candidates.
This year Dermott has been Guilds rep on I.C. Council, which also involves
being a member of Guilds Exec. From this vantage point he has been able to get
a very clear impression of what the President's job entails. He says it is rather
like an iceberg as one only sees about a tenth of it. There is a lot of committee
work, representing Guilds on both exclusively student committees and on I.C.
ones like the Refectories Committee and Athletic Committees. It is in the field of
academic affairs, however, that he feels that the most valuable work can be done.
This work involves anything
from arranging coffee machines to
suggesting changes in lecture con-
tent and examination timing.
Obviously thesuccess of academic
affairs work depends on a steady
flow of information from the de-
partments. Dermott hopes to be
able to improve this feedback by
strengthening the year rep.
system.
One of the more obvious
jobs of the President is a figure-
head in all meetings and discus-
sions with the staff, and it is in
this field that Dermott is
strongest. He has been active in
Guilds affairs for two years and is
fairly well known by the Staff and
knows how to anoroach them.
Many people might still feel' that anyone who appears to mess around at
Guilds Union meetings in such an obstreperous way would not be suitable for the
pre:idential post. If these sceptics had attended an I.C.U. meeting last term they
would have seen Dermott proposing a motion in a most eloquent manner. Then
he was being serious and was speaking for something that he believed in; although
the motion was narrowly defeated he created a very favourable impression even
on those who opposed the motion.
Dermott has both the ideas and the experience to make a good President; he has
shown himself to act as a leader across the broad spectrum of work that the post
involves. Dermott Corr must be the obvious choice for next year's Guilds
President.
Anita
Furniss
YOU may have seen diverse posters advertising " Nita," who is standing for
president of R.C.S. YES! she is a woman YES! she is serious. 'Nita arrived at
I.C. three years ago and has been in the chemistry department ever since. Next
year she is staying on to do an M.Sc. course in analytical Chemistry. She writes
the Mackmania column, often to be seen gracing these noble pages. Hence she
has inside information on the running of R.C.S. However she has not been a
committee member of R.C.S. but feels this an advantage rather than a disadvantage
because she knows how the ordinary member of R.C.S. feels towards the executive.
'Nita is an experienced organiser and has performed useful service as secretary of
the Carnival. She produced the programme for the folk-concert single handed.
Besides the above she has managed to write I.C.words and folk-club reports for
Felix.
Why does 'Nita want to stand for president??!!
She is representative of a new wave of opinion in R.C.S. and it was this group
which persuaded her to stand. The basic thesis of her policies is to encourage
individual participation in the Union. Her idea is that it is the members of the
Union who are important and not the executive committee and they would do
well to remember this. She feels that too many people regard the Union as a
prerogative of the few and do not join in its activities because of lack of encourage-
ment. 'Nita thinks that the president should rouse people into activity and has
been quoted as saiying : " If the mountain won't come to Mohammed, Mohammed
must go to the mountain " (sounds familiar). Her ideas on how to achieve this
are many and varied. They include departmental parties where people can meet
and talk to the officers of R.C.S. (" The present freshers tea is a fiasco as regards
finding out anything about R.C.S.) and interdepartmental activities such as sports
fixtures, parties and debates. This is to prevent the present isolated nature of
Chemistry and Maths. She hopes to improve the lot of post-graduates especially
those who were not undergraduates at I.C. This group tend to get neglected by
the Union. She would like to see an enlargement of the entertainments committee
to about 20 to 30 in an " Ents. action group." This would involve more people
in Ents and make the organization of social events easier.
On the non-Social side 'Nita wants to carry on the good work done by the
Staff-Student committees and the academic affairs officer. She would like to
promote staff-student relations by organizing more social functions with the staff.
She also supports management studies and would like to see the addition of non-
science subjects in more courses.
Does she think that being a girl will hinder her in being^president of R.C.S.?
On the contrary Anita believes that a girl can do the job as well as a man. In fact
she believes that it may encourage girls to come to I.C. and help dispell the image
of a ruthless male dominated society. The main point about Anita is that she is
prepared to go and meet members of the Union on a personal basis.
(P.S. She isn't bad looking either).
Roger
Webb
In the past, Presidents of R.C.S. have run their campaigns with great fervour,
but after their victories have become recluses hardly meeting anyone outside of the
General Committee. Rog Webb feels that the strength of R.C.S.U. must lie in the
campaign. How does he propose to do this?
President being approachable both before, and more important, after his election
Rog Webb realises this is a difficult task but feels that it can be done by having
informal gatherings of the General Committee and year reps. He thinks that at
committee meetings ideas are less forthcoming than at informal gatherings where
people tend to air their views with more confidence and conviction. This way he
believes he;will be able to hear the problems of both individuals and whole depart-
ments. In addition he intends to go round the laboratories and libraries talking to
people because he knows that many people have problemes and do not talk about
them unless directly asked.
This sounds rather an ambitious boast by an ignoramus. On Union affairs Rog
Webb cannot be described as that. This year he has been Secretary of RCS, and
in this role he has tried to implement several ideas like the rearrangement of
fresher's dinners and reforming the constitution. On this latter task Rog spent many
hours demonstrating that he is capable of hard work in the Union cause.
The knowledge that he gains from these informal meetings will be put to good
use. Rog has a great interest in academic affairs, a subject on which he has
several ideas. These have been set into motion this year and will be pushed forward
next year. They will not be allowed to drop because the main advantage of choosing
Rog Webb as President will be continuity in the running of the Union.
Many people know that Rog intends to get married this year and may doubt
that he will have the time to live up to his pledge of being more approachable.
This will not be so—as Rog is in Maths he does not have to spend lengthy hours in
the labs and so will be able to spend time during the day carrying out his duties.
Rog Webb has all the attributes of a President. He is known by and knows
many people, and is fully aware of the requirements of the Presidential office. He
has shown the drive and enthusiasm that is necessary for the post. With these
attributes who can become the President of RCSU but Rog Webb.

