QEC^iNICP'N GET RISE: STRIKE
At yesterday's meeting of the technicians' Union in Mech. Eng theatre A i t was
decided to accept the University's offer of an increased London weightinh thus
averting a strike that the technicians claim would have halted the examinations
this year and brought all research work to a stand still. As a result of tliis
settlement, tecoaicians n
o
w receive a greater London •weighting than academic staff.
In November the PIB report recommended a London allowance of £125 for the
non-industrial civil service. Wlien this was published A3BS, the technicians' Union
claimed for the same. '.Che University recognised the justice of this claim, but
having rto money had to apply to the Government for the necessary funds. The
Government eventually gave an unfavourable reply, and the University claimed that
i t could not pay the increase. However, the ASBIS, the new, stronger, Union formed
from the old LSGxJ and ASSET threatened strike action and the University suddenly
found that i t could pay the increase from its own resources.
Those working within 4 miles of Charing Cross now receive an extra 565 pa.
The Imperial College branch of the Union was foremost i n talcing the strong
line that achieved the rise. There may well be trouble ahead because of anomalies
unresolved by the recent settlement in particular TE's and EO's receive no rise
and those at College Field Stations outside London do not get the rise awarded to
similar people in the same College, but working in London.
PIRATE J AiLER
Tuesday afternoon; A mini was parked in the Rector's Car Park, halfway across
a lockable bollard, with a notice in the window "I am attending lectures at Imperial
College and therefore consider I am entitled to park here." S.C.
•TEZ Y.1MS PRIZE AT BRIGHTON"
Last Sunday, RCS Motor Club took Jezebel on the Historic Commercial Vehicle
Run to Brighton. Setting off from Battersea at 6.3O a.m. (such hours do exist, even
on a Sunday) she behaved superbly, the only trouble being that the fuel tap closed
itself twice en route.
Unfortunately, the mini tender vehicle of Dick Gentle was not quite so well
behaved, and gave UID the ghost. But Jez continued to Brighton regardless.
In the Concourse d'Elegance Jez was awarded 2nd prize, a plaque for pre-1920
fire engines (Guilds please note - Jez wins prizes) and she then stormed home,
revitalised, in only 3 hours. In honour of Jez' achievement the College flag w i l l
fly today.
BE BLOOD! GENEROUS
The last session of blood doning in the Union building in November enabled
the National Blood Transfusion Service to collect 444 pints of blood, in fact
enough blood for a bathi
Blood is s t i l l ur.gently needed and i t would be a tremendous achievement i f
this figure were increased at the next session starting on fey 21st.
Provided that you l i e in confort with a pretty nurse holding one hand and a
cup of tea in the other, there w i l l be no after effects, exce-ots perhaps, an
increasing desire to do i t again.
There are no qualifications necessary to become a donor, in fact any type of
bleeder w i l l do, so please don't hesitate in signing up on the notice board in the
Union.
In spite of this flippancy, i t cannot be overstressed how important blood i s .
It is not uncommon for operations to have to be •postponed because of lack of blood
for a necessary transfusion. The doctors in charge of the session have stated
that there are no after effects at a l l and doning w i l l have no deleterious effect
on examination performance. In fact the sight of a l l those nurses w i l l probably
increase your performance, so please, i f you possibly can, give your blood at the
next session in the Union. Leslie Webb Botany PG
NEW BAR :.XTRHISIiINGS
South Side bar is to get 12 new chairs and 5 new tables plus a £ 2 5 0 carpet.
£100 of this is to be paid for by the staff as they use the bar.

