MEETING DEBACLE
The Warden, Dr. J. R. Butler,
levelled criticisms at the stair
representatives for not giving
sufficient publicity for his having
to cancel the first Keogh Hall
dinner of term on February 1st.
He suffered the embarrassment of
having to cancel his invitations to
two members of staff, but hopes
that this action will not nee I to
hi repeated. More organisation
wa'i needed on the student level.
Dr. Butler and his assistant,
Hugh Dowley, who each invited
a guest, regarded last term's
dinners as a useful experiment in
furthering amicable relations be-
tween the staff and the students.
A Hall meeting this term en-
dorsed their opinion.,
The average attendance at these
dinners was between a dozen and
twenty, but only about 30 of the
72 Hall residents ever seemed to
take part. This term old "Keogh-
loeians " were invited to attend.
THE VALUE OF DINNERS
This is by no means the first
attempt by the Southside over-
lords to run regular Hall dinners.
Mr. Seaford has held dining-in
nights for Selkirk and Dr.
Cameron has run a number of
"closed shop" dinners for Tizard.
Dr. Butler felt that his dinner*
represented " A genuine effort on
the part of the staff to spend an
extramural evening with the boys"
After dinner, there was general
discussion over beer and coffee;
talking shop was avoided at all
times. Later, perhaps in the
summer term, Dr. Butler hopes to
invite guests from outside the
college.
On improving staff-student re-
lationships in general, the Keogh
warden feels that there is a far
greater interest taken by the staff
than by the students. "There are,"
he said, " few voices among the
students."
D.I.W.
Many Serious Questions Remain Unanswered
Student apathy ruined another great Imperial College Union institution to-day, when yet
another inquorate General Meeting had to be postponed for a fortnight. The next I.C. Union Meeting
will convene in the Concert Hall at 1.15 p.m. on Thursday, 18 February.
Apathy was expressed not merely by the poor attendance (few more than 200 people composed
the audience—300 are required to make a Meeting quorate) but more particularly by die Union
executive and proposers of motions.
There must be more adventurous advertising for future Union Meetings. Without rum-
maging through official noticeboards for non-eye-catching posters, few will have known what subjects
were being discussed, let alone take the trouble to attend. Further, the standard Union Meeting
notices gave no indications as to which side the proposers' bread was buttered—one had to read
the insignificant typed sheets on.Council notice- | t h e s t a r t o f t h e a c a d e m i c y e a r . I am informed
that there have been a nuumber of "N.U.S.
forums"; the last was on 28th January, but re-
ceived no publicity and attracted but TWO
PEOPLE ! More recently. Mr. Utting went to
work with his magic marker and weakly urged
people to attend the mammoth tea-party to dis-
cuss N.U.S., and several paper slipc explaining the
advantages of joining N.U.S. have littered various
flat surfaces whence students might pick them up.
The Union executive might take a tip from the
Debating Society. Struggling though it is, its
attendances are up on last year's due largely to
greater publicity. Union Meetings must be adver-
tised freely—bigger, more detailed and more pic-
turesque posters are required not only in the
Union building but also jn the departments and
on the hoardings biding college reconstruction.
Continued on p. 2
boards in the .Union lounge or Southside to dis-
cover that Mike Edwards was PROPOSING
THAT WE JOIN N.UJS. or that Keith Cavanagh
was proposing that a CONFERENCE BE HELD
TO DISCUSS LECTURING METHODS. From
Secretary Utting's posters no one can be blamed
for imagining the meeting to be just one big tea-
party where everyone could sit around and chat
about N.UJS. and lecturing over a cuppa.
But Mr. Utting's door is not the only one at
which blame must be laid. Surely Mr. Cavanagh
and his supporters could have given a great build-
up stressing to students the need for a lecturing
methods conference. To add more interest, the
opposition could have produced an equally im-
pressive publicity campaign.
The pro-N.U.S. team have never seemed to
wake up to a situation until it is too late. That
I.C. should join N.U.S. has been in the air since
A N N HAY first year botanist
who sings with the Wayfarers and
will play lolanthe (see back page)

