12 F E L I X
FOOD AND BEER
PRICES UNCHANGED
The price of Mooney meals are
not to go up. This was the
joyful news from the Refectory
Committee's Meeting of 3rd Feb.
Despite increases in the cost of
food, an extra 3d. an hour on the
wages bill, and a loss of £170 on
the first five months of this finan-
cial year the Committee decided
to peg prices at the present level.-
They hoped that this freeze will
last well into next year.
Also you will still be able to
drink your pint for only 2/- cost.
Nationally most leading brands, of
beer went up a penny a pint a
few months ago. A stabilized
retail price list of all beverages is
to be posted in all College Bars
including Weeks Hall. Whole
Keg Barrels prices are also to be
standardized around the college,
(this will show a 10/- reduction
in some cases).
The other interesting point
raised was the possibility of hav-
ing a grill on the Union Bar
counter. But this proposal has to
go to Council for further discus-
sion.
GENERAL STUDIES
U.S.A.—States' Rights
v. Federal Power
On Tuesday, last week, the first
of a series of lec'.ures on the U.S.
was given by Miss Karlynn Him -
man, B.A. (Utah), M A . (Rad-
cliffe), a visiting Fulbrigbt Re-
search Scholar, and poli ical
scientist.
Any ice was broken by the
speaker announcing that that
particular day (February 2nd) was
a National Event, in the U.S.
calendar ; — Groundhog day!
These small woodchucks indicate
weather conditions; if they can
see their own shadows, there will
be six weeks more of winter(?)
Returning to the subject of the
talk,—the very topical one of
what role the federal government
should play, and of how much
power this should wield in State
matters,—Miss Hinman seemed
generally to be in favour of the
federal government having more
control in the various spheres.
The U.S.A. was originally in-
tended to be a loose confedera-
tion of almost autonomous States,
We are', said Henry Ford at the International Ford Conference in Paris,
'in the people business'. At Ford we know that quality in cars depends
on the calibre of men. The pace of your career with us depends on that
calibre as surely as the speed of your car depends on the power built into it.
Ford build more and more cars, trucks and tractors, need more and more
men. The headquarters of this expanding company is in Brentwood, Essex,
but Ford is going ahead in London, Dagenham and Liverpool.
We need ALL kinds of graduates—mechanical engineers, for design and
development; arts men, scientists and economists. The technological
revolution came long ago at Ford.
And training for a progressive career takes prime place at Ford.
Engineers follow a two-year graduate apprenticeship designed to meet
I. Mech. E. requirements; there/are.courses for finance trainees and grad-
uate trainees—those interested in sales, purchase, industrial relations
and marketing.
Graduates will find Ford rewarding I Salaries begin at an £876 minimum.
Most arts and economics graduates will be earning £1,128 in less than
a year—engineers get an increase of £96 at the end of the first year's
apprenticeship and at least enothor £96 at the end of their second.
From then on acceleration depends on you. v
Promotion at Ford is traditionally from within and graduates have accel-
erated quickly here. Management Development operates to make sure
they can.
There's much to interest the graduate at Ford.
See your Appointments Board, or write for details to J. S. Smale.
Room 1/174, Ford Motor Company, Warley, — ^ —
Brentwood, Essex, who will be visiting
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
on
3rd MARCH O F B R I T A I N
with the Federal Court, only
having jurisdiction, war defence
and inter-state commerce; (and
not over even criminal law).
This subject is of very recent
interest, and since Goldwater,
who expressed for states rights,
lost the election, it would seem
that perhaps the states would
loose even more rights in the
future. The speaker concluded
that the trend was definitely to-
wards increased federal power
although she did not think that
the states would ever be eclipsed;
and that the whole problem was
very complex with no clear solu-
tion.
A very interesting talk, which
sets quite a high standard for the
remainder of the series—which
deserve more support than the
first talk got.
KENSINGTON
SOUND 1965
Most of the items for this year's
Carnival Record will be recorded
within the next two weeks.
Thanks to an Old Centralian,
professional equipment will be
used this year, and the final pro-
duct should be comparable to
commercially issued discs.
The record will contain all the
College war-cries, which will be
recorded live at the forthcoming
Union meetings. A n R & B
arrangement of a certain Bar
Song is envisaged; the Jim
Swingle singers have been com-
missioned to utter forth; and
microphones have been seen
springing up at Hootenanies, be-
hind pianos and refectory serving
counters.
The design of the special
souvenir cover has been kept a
closely guarded secret. Felix can,
however reveal that it will con-
tain " Price 7/6 "
D.G.B.
One Act Festival
Mid-March will see an interesting new venture enacted jointly by
the Dramatic Societies of the Royal College of Art, Royal College
of Music and Imperial College, when they present a festival of one-
act plays. Detailed plans for the event have now been settled.
The hall of the new R.C.A. building, where the plays will be
performed on the evenings of 16, 17 and 18 March, will present a
challenge to actors, stage crews and audience alike. In keeping with
its setting the drama too will be contemporary.
" Next Time I'll Sing To You," the first act of which is the choice
of I.C.D.S., won for its author, James Saunders, the "Best Play"
award for 1963. Its produce! at R.C.M. Producer Lesley Slater
will be Phil d'Anthreau, an Elec-
trical Engineering postgraduate
and newcomer to I.C.
R.C.M. will perform an oper-
etta based on Tolstoy's short
story " The Imp and the Crust."
The music has been specially
written by Michael Basset, who
studies composition and the flute
is well-known for her perform-
ances in past I.C.D.S. produc-
tions.
R.C.A. remain undecided, but
their offering will certainly be
contemporary, for plays by Pin-
ter, Ionesco and Beckett are at
present being considered.
I.C MUSICAL SOCIETY (OPERA GROUP)
I0LANTHE
From February 22nd to 26th
" Iolanthe " in the Concert Hall,
is an amusing fantasy involving
of fairies led by a militant queen,
Wayfarers, plays in the title role.
This year's production team is
led by a B.B.C. television author
who has had much experience
with amateur productions. As
I.C. orchestra held a concert at
the beginning of February, they
had not enough time to rehearse
for " Iolanthe also. Instead, an
orchestra was formed by students
from the Royal College of Music
plus a few from I.C. so the
standard of playing should be
very high.
Rehearsals, which have been
taking place since. October, are
going well and indicate that it
should be a very enjoyable show
which should not be missed. We
the Opera Group will be presenting
This work hy Gilbert and Sullivan
the House of Lords and a horde
Ann Hay. who also sings with the
hope that as many people as pos-
sible will support us by coming
to see it. Tickets are on sale in
the Union at lunchtimes. Buy now
to avoid disappointment later.
The Opera Group will perform
the " M i k a d o " on the South
Coast in July. Anyone interested
please contact Chris Hocking, 662
Selkirk Hall.
E. C O L G A N
S M A L L A D
RALLY DRIVER seeks audi-
ence. John Sprinzel is giving a
talk to the City and Guilds Motor
Club on February 12th at 2,15
p.m. in Room 542 Mech. Eng.
Published by FELIX BOARD, Imperial College, London, S.W.7;
Plates and offset printing by WEST LONDON OFFSET CO., bS, Lillie Road. London. S.W.6. Tel.: FUL 7969

