FELI X 5
R.C.S. Week
This week is R.C.S. week as are all the other 51 weeks in the
year.
Recruiting starts Sunday. Conditions for acceptance for the
Guildsman/Miner are firstly to publically renounce Yogi Bishop/Des
Kearns and all his romps, secondly to deposit a custard pie in his
face and thirdly to baptise himself by complete immersion in the
sacred waters of the Round Pond for at least ten minutes.
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday — Blood.
Traditionally R.C.S. give blood this week—whereas Guilds and
Mines give their blood on Morphy Day.
Thursday — Union Meeting.
1.15 p.m. Chemistrv lecture theatre " B." The motion before
the house is " R.C.S.U. offers nothing to the majority of its members."
Friday — Tramps Ball.
Tickets, if there are any left, are only 2/6. This includes F R E E
beer, buses, food, and Females (i.e. 7^d. each.) Buses leave from
Union for unknown destination at 7.20 and 7.30.
Saturday.
This is left to you and the bird you met Friday. For your future
enjoyment:
Jezette is hot favourite for the Bristol pedal car race on March
5th. Do you want to watch her win?
LATE GENTLEMEN OF MINES
Foreign Students Visit.
At the end of last term the Royal School of Mines Union
entertained students from similar Schools in Leoben Claustral, St.
Ettienne, Paris and Delft.
The first social event was Christmas Hall Dinner Mr. Mooney
is to be congratulated on the high standard of the dinner. The visitors
were amazed that such meals are available to students in the college.
On the Wednesday morning, a hired coach took the visitors on a
tour of London, and in the afternoon they were given the opportunity
of meeting some of the R.S.M. staff at informal discussions in the
I.C.W.A. Lounge. The visitors joined the members of the Chaps
Club on an outing to the theatre in the evening.
An early start on Thursday morning ensured that we arrived
at Van Moppes in Basingstoke, in time to see some diamonds before
being entertained to lunch in a local pub.
In the evening the Union went carol singing in the West End, and
returned to some liquid refreshment in Beit Hall.
The climax of the visit was the Mines Ball on Friday. This
appeared to be enjoyed by all present. Thanks must go to ICWA,
for without their support the visitors may well have been driven to
drink.
R. F.-J.
S H O R T
Notices appeared last Wednes-
day in the Union and Halls call-
ing for volunteers to help in
house renovation in Notting Hill
as part of the 1965 IC Carnival
effort—good training for would-
be practical householders.
* *• *
The Carnival Commandos suc-
ceeded in rallying only a score
or so people for their Festival
Hall reopening night collection
on Monday, 1st February. Out-
numbered and moved on by the
police, their takings were meagre.
*• * *•
The Union lounge may have
more small tables—Exec are
browsing through furniture cata-
logues.
* * *
The masque for the Festival of
London mentioned in the previous
issue, has found the backing it
needed, from the Goldsmiths'
Company—and there is every
chance that it will be held in the
Goldsmiths' Hall: One possible
snag is the apparent lack of sup-
port from students; all those
interested in taking part are
invited to contact Dr. Cameron.
•* # »
Six Fire Engines called on
Tuesday, 2nd February, to extin-
guish a fire on the fourth floor
in the Geochemistry building
(Mines). Firemen were later seen
wandering aimlessly around the
roof with a garden hose.
i * * *
I.C. Carnival Committee have
to run their recruitment cam-
paign. Their office has been
moved from Committee room A
in the Union to the Southside
Committee room below the Bridge
and Chess room. It will be open
every lunchtime and someone will
be there to answer any of your
enquiries or enlist your help.
W H A T P A R T D O E S T H E
C H E M I C A L E N G I N E E R
P L A Y IN ICI?
"In recent years the number of staff with a first-degree in chemical engineering
employed by ICI has been steadily increasing . . . and the demand for graduates will
grow apace. Chemical engineers can adapt themselves to many types of work in the
chemical industry. Their knowledge of unit processes equips them for work on the
development of new processes, the preparation of flowsheets for manufacturing
plants, and the chemical engineering design of items of plant. Process investigation
and production management are spheres which enlarge their experience and in which
some of them will make their careers. The important work of technical and economic
feasibility studies for new projects will in the future require more and more chemical
engineers with all-round experience and sound judgement."
This extract is from Careers for Chemical Engineers—one of a series of leaflets
published by ICI for the information of chemical engineers, engineers, physicists,
mathematicians, statisticians and chemists who are considering a career in industry.
Send for any of these titles:
Careers for Chemical Engineers
Careers for Engineers
Careers for Physicists
Careers for Mathematicians & Statisticians
Careers for Chemists
Research Opportunities in ICI
Write to: G. C. Cheverton, Central Personnel (Univ.), IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD. LONDON S.W.1
r* 3r
i
M

