6 F E L I X
felix
E D I T O R
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
N. J. WALKER
This year Felix has attracted more advertising than ever before
and Felix has also increased in size. However, this is not due to
there being any large surplus of articles sent in. In this issue the copy
amounts to less than half that carried in any of the issues of last
term. The Felix staff have produced their usual amount, but very
few others have contributed anything.
If you want a good flourishing paper then it is your job to make
one—we cannot invent news or be at every function taking place in
the Union. Our reporters write articles on a few of the more interest-
ing meetings, but a lot must remain uncovered.
If necessary the Felix staff can rewrite any article submitted.
We may be able to provide a photographer if we are informed of any
meetings that might need one. We cannot write 10,000 words our-
selves for every issue and have no intention of attempting to do so.
Felix wants to give a broad outlook on I.C. life; there are over
eighty clubs in the Union but how many have ever submitted an
article, let alone written regularly ? We guarantee to print any
report submitted by a Union club, but reserve the right to edit an
article. We may, if need be, hold over any article to the following
issue but we will make every effort to print it.
STUDENT OFFICERS
Who gets the last half pint in
.the Union bar? The person who
has his name at the bottom of a
little black piece of pegboard in
the Union. That is the day's
duty officer, and it is his painful
duty to ensure law and order in
the Union.
He is responsible for closing the
bar on time or before if it gets
too rowdy. He must then clear
all the drunkards and television
addicts out of the place before he
locks up. He is in charge of all
the Union staff and can eject
anybody who makes a nuisance
of themselves, he in fact speaks
for the Union.
It is a most unenviable job, and
is shared between the senior mem-
bers of the Union on a rota basis.
Couldn't we all be a little more
co-operative and make his job a
little easier?
TIME FOR
The Long Vacation
JUST TIME FOR
WINTER SPORTS
AND
SPRING HOLIDAYS
Either or both of these publications can be obtained
free, with application form, from :—
N.U.S. T R A V E L
3, Endsleigh Street, London, W.C.I
Please send , ...^
Name
Address
Date
BACKWARDS INTO THE I.C.E. AGE
C
There is one section of the community who have
no reason to pine for the Utopia of the seventies,
when College redevelopment is completed. 1
speak of the car owners, especially students. You
O
see, we're just not supposed to own cars—you can
spend all your grant on beer, women, fags, clothes,
etc., but to do without these and run a car instead
is definitely immoral, it just won't do. " So what?"
say you (if you're a car owner) " I can still find
L
a place to park, so it doesn't matter what the
authorities think ! " Yes, but what about the
day when there are parking meters on the street
and the Imperial Institute Road and South-Side
car parks are no longer there. " That's alright,"
C
you reply triumphantly, " it's all being looked
after by the car parking commiUse." But that,
my friend, is the biggest laugh of the lot. This
noble body, which has had at least one meeting in
the last six months, appears to be pursuing, with
U
an enviable tenacity, the policy of reducing
College parking space by as much as possible.
On November 24th, they aspired to an all time
low with a long discussion on subtle ways and
means of undercutting the LCC's requirements of
T
a minimum of 300 parking places on fie central
site. This, when the L C C requirements themselves
are generally accepted as underestimates, to say
the least. Honestly, if this sort of thing happens
in an institution bursting at the seams with tech-
T
nological brainpower, then Prof. Buchanan might
as well have a ceremonial burning of all his
reports, and find some other profession. There is
just no hope for the rest of the country !
WHERE ARE THEY NOW ?
At the beginning of the College year, with fresh Union officers
all rearm' to go, many innovations and reforms are promised. By
this time, however, most have been forgotten. One victim of this
phenomenon, which did in actual fact get off the ground for a few
hectic weeks last term, is the broadsheet giving details of student
events in the College each week. I am told that this will reappear
" sometime," but this is not in my opinion an adequate answer. The
U.C. Broadsheet which appears weekly outside the Union office from
some divine source is not, Mr. Price, a substitute for one of our own.
The much vaunted advertising and notice-board reform doesn't
seem to have materialised either—and we are now even lumbered
with a monstrous additional double sided board, which obscures all
external affairs notices and takes up too much room in the Union
entrance hall. Also, while on the subject, I request the executive to
banish all unaddressed publicity material from the letter racks. If
other societies follow the regrettable example of the Motor Club, and
advertise their dinners in this way, there soon won't be any room for
letters. Not that anyone sends me any!
Felix Staff
ASSISTANT EDITOR Business
D. I. WDLLIAMS
Production Manager Alan Oxley
Sports Editor Dave Hunt
Late News Editor Ted Needham
Photographic
Editor John Cawson
Sales
Production
Secretary
Robin Webster,
Peter Combes,
Geoff. Bean,
Barry Pichler
Andrew Mayo,
Jocelyn Mackintosh
Asst. M. Leppard
Miss G. Steele
HALDANE LIBRARY
13, Prince's Gardens
Sorry I You won't find text-
books or scientific treatises in
this library, but you winfindover
10,000 good books of general
interest including all the latest
novels I
And it's Free too !
Open 11—530 p.m. and
until 7.0 p.m. on Tuesday
and Thursday
KENSINGTONS
MOST COMPREHENSIVE
BOOK SERVICE
NEW BOOKS
SECOND HAND BOOKS
PAPERBACKS
GRAMOPHONE
RECORDS
H. KARNAC (Books) LTD.
56-58 GLOUCESTER RD.,
S.W.7
KNI 7908/0177

