FELIX 7
THE CASE AGAINST JOINING N.U.S.
Put by C. P. BURDESS
Penelope Williams and Mike Edwards wrote in last Felix that
I.C. must stop being parochial and join N.U.S. It really is an
excellent idea that all students should get together and discuss their
views in a national body, but we have only to look at N.L'.S. to
see what has happened to this fine theory when formally put into
practice.
If we went into N.U.S. we would be able to send our delegate
to council (£100 or SO'—what an improvement!) and add our block
vote to a demand for increased grants. At the last N.U.S. conference
that motion was the only one voted on—the rest of the time was
taken up with points of order, leaving several hundred other motions
untouched. Public opinion was not swayed in favour of N.U.S.
by the reporters of national newspapers, who were thoroughly bored
by the meeting.
Several firms find it. commercially advantageous to get free ad-
vertisement through N.U.S. by cutting their profit margins some-
what. The same firms approached by individual non-N.U.S. students
would most probably give a reduction if aware that the student
is " shopping around " for discount.
E M P L O Y M E N T FIASCO
NUS also runs a vacational
employment scheme (non-voca-
tional). It puts up two types of
notices on NUS boards—apply-
direct-to-firms, and apply-via-
NUS. These are firms requiring
5 or less and more than 5 students
respectively, though no indication
of this is given. In applying via
NUS, several forms have to be
filled, and 7/6 is extracted "to
cover administrative expenses"
while told that one can only get
the job through NUS (they have
even claimed a monopoly of GPO
jobs). Their administrative costs
would, of course, be less if they
had fewer cards and forms; be-
sides, rarely does an employment
agency charge the employees
rather than the employers.
Of the other so-called " advan-
tages " of joining NUS, debating
competitions, drama festivals, and
newspaper competitions could all
be arranged informally between
colleges and universities without
employing full time administra-
tors at NUS.
RISING COSTS
The present rate of joining
NUS is Is. 3d. per member. In
addition, the College NUS Secre-
tary can charge for the card
before handing it over to the
otherwise paid-up member—
many colleges charge up to 3d.
more to help balance accounts for
sendinng two or more people to
council. The rate is going up to
2s. 6d. in 1967, and it is already
decided to raise it by 2s. 6d. in-
stalments to at least 10/- in the
near future. If I.C. were 4,000
strong then, we would incur
£2,000 p.a. plus council delegates'
expenses, and expenses for any-
thing one actually did—such as
taking part in drama festivals.
The present £300 may look a
small amount to waste at the
moment, and a small percentage
of ICU's £16,000, but should we
waste 2 per cent of our present
income, and mortgage 10 per cent
of future income?
PARKINSON'S DISEASE
The unfortunate thing about
NUS is that it is a formal link
requiring paid administrative
staff, who outlive the executive
council just as the Civil Service
outlives successive Governments,
and it is in just the same predica-
ment. Readers familiar with C.
Northcote Parkinson will recog-
nise the situation: the size of
administration increases at a
steady rate irrespective of the
increase in work (if any) to be
done and the cost goes up slightly
more than proportionately as the
relative number of supervisors
increases.
NUS appears to offer nothing
that could not be obtained at
far less expense, and with less
bureaucracy, by I.C. Union alone.
Finally, I think that the state-
ment that the Ministry of Pen-
sions was forced by the NUS
to reverse the decision to charge
PG's Class 2 rate N.I. is untrue,
and anyway quite irrelevant
to IC's joining NUS. However,
had the MNIP charged the
class 2 rate, this would have led
to an immediate 10 per cent rise
in PGs' cost of living, which the
DSIR could not possibly have
overlooked, and the result would
probably have been that grants
would have risen to cover the
N.I., and then we wouldn't have
NUS trying to get the MNIP to
credit the contributions. Any-
way, I.C. has also been cam-
paigning to this end, and I'm
sure the effect of IC is greater
than 1 per cent, of NUS's effort.
(I.C. 3,000 students, NUS 250,000
students).
We can hardly hope to reform
NUS from its extravagant and
petty ways, and so I think we are
better out of it. It is rather a
shame in that I like the idea of
unity of students; but the cost is
too great, and the unity too small.
BRIGHTON INSURANCE BROKERS (Gould & Cook) Ltd.
5 D U R R E
D E R L
A
G
O
U
L
D
&
C
O
O
K L
T
D
GENERAL INSURANCE
We are sympathetic to your insurance needs and make it our business to get better terms for students.
Probably, the most important type of insurance to you is Motor and you may have experienced difficulty in
obtaining favourable terms for this class of insurance.
We have connections with several well established Insurance Companies where we will be able to insure
your Car or Motor Cycle at a competitive premium. Even if you are already insured, allow us to obtain a com-
parative quotation for you.
Other types of policies which will be of interest to you are Personal Accident and All Risks insurance. A
policy has been specially prepared to provide cash benefits for students who sustain injury during sporting acti-
ties as well as everyday life. Most hazardous sports are included such as Boxing, Mountaineering, etc., and the
premiums required are extremely reasonable.
F D R
STUDENTS' LIFE ASSURANCE
Whilst at College the type of Life Assurance which interests the student
most is the Student Policy. It is cheap, practical, and has tremendous advantages
for different uses—for example, House Purchase, Regular Savings. It may also
be used as security for a loan if required. The policy costs you between 7/- to
9/- a week, and give you a sum assured as high as £2,000.
S T U D E N T S !
GOULD & COOK, LTD., 11, RICHMOND PLACE, BRIGHTON,
SUSSEX. TEL. BRIGHTON 680826.

