F e l i x
The Imperial College Newspaper
F E L
C i r c u l a t i o n 1 2 0 0 Editor: MILL HUDSON
A word which i s used frequently j.z present i s
apathy. This word croDs up i n many magazinesand
especially student journals and papers. It i s
probably a sign of the times that people l i k e to be
pampered, and they expect the age of automatons to
lead to an even easier l i f e . Perhaps the Welfare
state has had i t s influence i n bringing people to
the condition where' they consider that others have
an obligation to look a f t e r their various necessities
and toe entertain them
At the last I.e. general meeting ot seemed that
apathy a i a not aDound i n a t h i r d of the students.
Admittedly i t wasxthose that f e l t strongly about a
certa'in Issue who were present, but that they endured
the overcrowding to record their opinions obyiates
the accusing finger being thrust at them.
Perhaps while this s p i r i t prevails i t would be a
good- opportunity to sugcest'that opinions can be ex-
pressed i n the College Journal and Newspaper. Indeed,
FELIX hopes to cover a series of controversial
subjects next term, but the need of PHOENIX *b greutei
at present.
Any people with ideas are urged to send thett to the
Editor of that Journal,who w i l l give cdvioe i f the
individual does not feel sufficiently well endowed with
l i t e r a r y talent himself.
I.C.W.A. DANCE
I.C.W.A. held their JSnual Dinner and Dance on Friday,
March 2nd. The Guest of Honour this year was Miss Margaret
Popham, Ex-headmistress of Cheltenham Ladies College.
An excellent dinner was followed by sdrae most entertaining
speeches. I*r. Atkinson,in proposing the Association, illust-
rated his amusing remarks with drawings of Mark 1 and ".ark 11
Icwarians. I'embers of the Association were relieved to find
these two extremes. In reply,.Hiss Maureen Hawes outlined
the activities of I.C.W.A. during the past year and expressed
the hope that future years would show a considerable increase
in the size of the Association. From Miss Paddy Clarke's
remarks i t was-concluded thatithe guests were of the highest
calibre; Miss Margaret Popham expressed relief in finding
that women scientists were more versatile and decorative
Ulan she had been led to believe.
Dancing followed to music provided by the Clubnen
Quartet, and i t was generally agreed that the evening was a
great success.
Square Dancing
Although the strains of music frequently emanate from
the Ayrton Hall, on Wednesday 29th February, when the
Conservative Society held its Square Dance, the Tempo was
changed. A team of Young Conservative dancers entering to
their signature tune "Cracking Corn" gave a short demon-
stration and immediately followed by inviting everyone to
join them on the floor.
The team,with tireless energy, assisted by the caller,
had no difficulty in teaching the dancers of the eight sets
who thronged the floor.
The dances varied 1>om the Traditional American style
to "The Square Dance Jitterbug" 0 f doubtful origin.
The venture was a great success and it is to be hoped
that a similar function will be held in the near future.
P R E S E N T E D S T W E S T F J E L Q G O U - E G E
THE M
A
S
T
E
R B
U
I
L
D
E
R
"
BY U E N R I K I B S E N
T H U R S . M A R C H 1 5 * 7 - 3 0 .
ADMISSION
I X
'P.M.
TJt THB NEWS: Almost every, day, referenoes to technol-
ogical training or to I.C. in partioular, are to be found in
the press. The oomments of outsiders on our problems are
frequently unusual enough to be very thought-provoking.
Norman Fisher in the Observer: " mathematics, indispensible
to soienoe, is not only uncongenial but exceedingly difficult
to many intelligent children" (converse?); and again: "When
technical students are allowed to enter their examination
rooms carrying reference books, the auspices for their
general education will become far more favourable." The
article subsequently refutes the argument that science
provides just as good an intellectual discipline as arts and
states that "scientists have "become increasingly incompre-
hensible even to one another." Nevertheless, economists
rarely oome under fire for having a narrow intellectual
training. In the "Sunday Times", Sir John Simon goes to
lengths to differentiate between technologists and techni-
cians, while controversy rages here, as in the "Manchester
Guardian" over the demolition of the prioeless relic
known as Collieutt Building. Meanwhile we sit and wait or
sit and work for the June exams.
FQK.'AL DINNERS Inadvertently entering the bar for a
quiet drink about 7 o'clook, I have recently been embarrassed
by the presence of crowds of spendidly arrayed students
trying to buy as many sherries as possible for others, while
the rest of us argue about who is to buy the next round of
half bitters. I have frequently pondered: Who is out of
place? and: Is this the Public or the Saloon Bar? Alas with
the loss of our proletarian symbol, the dartboard, I feel
l i t t l e confidence and trot round to the Queen. But evening
dress or no evening d^ess, you must not miss last flail Dinner
of the term; borrow the girl-friend's tartan skirt - nobody
quite* knows what' constitutes Highland evening dress.
A HEP OP SPORT (As Andy Levine said recently) Work on
the R.O.S.Carnival "Night Time with Neptune" has been under-
way since the Mines' Carnival. Larger than ever flats,
designed by Vase Atkinson, will provide the background, and
there will presumably be the usual snogging facilities
behind the background.
FICK3D TIP. CHgAtOii 7e welcome the appearance of new
lines in the Snack #ar confectionery but the box bearing the
legend "Carnival tart" ought to be smothered in jam or something
^lain $ane thinks
Jane regrets that she is not going to continue with the
examination of I.C. men begun in the last issue. She is fed
up with them and has now developed outside interests. It
seems, however,to be the fashion at present to present sur-
veys in this paper and we continue on these lines. W
e give
our faithful reader our Classification of I.C. lecturers.
I.C. Lecturers can, we find, be
listed as follows:
Group I: Incomprehensible. A l l
our lecturers fall into this general
category to some extent. Those f a l l -
ing solely into this Group may be
subdivided into:
a) Inaudible' - usually these will
not, or are unable to write their
message on the blackboard,
o) Those who are unable to write
dearly.
3roup II: Raconteurs: These are
found usually in R.S.M. Their lect-
ures a^e interspersed frequently
with "When I was out in Peru....."
or " One.big firm I'm doing a bit
of consulting work for at the m
o
m
-
ent ".
Group I H : The mechanical lecturer. One such gentleman in
the Electrical Department. 3prings to mind. This type repeat,
word for ward, without any notes, the same lecture at the
same time year after year.
jflroup IV: Authar*»lecturer.. Usually actually a professor, this
species lecture from "my book" (Only 3 gas. from Lamleys, or
7 gas. from the Bookstall). Students may pass the course by
borrcrving the work from a wealthy and oon3oientious brown-
bagger and staying in bed to read i t in lieu of dragging them-
selves to college at an early hour in the morning.
Gtbhp V": Those who Avoid being Humorous and are Funny. One
Maths lecturer onoe sadd;"I want no-one to speak unless he
has something to say.* Those suffering from poor circulation
in the feet make use of this type.
flroup VI: Those who try to be amorous and Fail Dismally: A
large.proportion of the students also Fail Dismally. This
type of lecturer i s usually s t i l l living in the days of silent
films. The"joke" i s useful when the point in the oourse has
been reached where the students know more than he does.
i " . ? 5
^ 1 i a a o t e d t a c
multitudinous Union
Activities. (Eef. SHOE! on "Imperialism") ]£jT

