F E L I X 5
S P O R T I N G
CHAS. COTTKRUX
Born in Aldershot 1931, Chas
has disliked the Army ever since.
He went to school in the Isle of
Wight, and was Victor Ludcrimv in
his final year there, in athletios,
besides being in the school swimm-
ing, hockey, and tennis teams. He
is also a member of Keden (i.O.W.)
A.C., for whom he lias never run.
Chas took his degree, in geology
at Southampton University, where,
naturally, he earned his full cross-
country colours. The next two
yews of his l i f e , he says, were
his worst - the Army. After recover-
ing, he came to I.C. in 1955 and ran
his way into the "niversity cross-
country team. This term he has done
a fantastic amount of training for
the Road Relay, and was amply
rewarded by his excellent time
of 13-22. Moreover,u e
P°t -n a
tremendous amount of work, organising
the Road Relay, which was justified
by the air of efficiency about the
whole meeting - the best Road Relay
ever. He has an ambition to be in
Piccadilly Circus on New Year's
Eve, 1999, and his likes are
ballet, Stephen Leacock, and
black treacle. His pet hates are
T.C.P, (ever since he drank some)
and the army.
CHAS. LEN. LES.
LBN PALMER
Bom in Battersea in 1932.
Len attended Raynes Park Grammar School and started
his boxing career at the age of 14. Not content with this,
he also played rugger, crioket and hookey for the sohopl
before coming to i.e. in 1951. Doubting greatly his,
•ability to pass 1st. year chemistry, he applied for a place
in the Botany Department, where he was told to come baok
in two years. Len thereupon joined the R»A.F,, where he
reached the semi-finals of the boxing championships by
five consecutive knockouts.
On returning to I.C. he tried to arouse some interest
in boxing, and has oertainly succeeded. Len is at present
captain of both 1.0, and U.L. boxing, and has recently
immortalized himself by winning the U.A.U. featherweight
championship - although he is a bantam-weight. Besides
boxing he enjoys rugby, golf, and sculling. He is
particularly anxious to see a permanent P.T. instructor
in the new gym, so that I.C. 's physical standards
might improve.
Len confesses to two strong dislikes - people who
slam doors late at night, and super-sophisticated
woman who smoke in public.
PROFILES
SMS JOCKS
Bans in Farm i a 1933-34*
tea want to school i n Dumfries &
xynmcuth, and was not noted for
his scholastic abilities. He star-
ted Jds athletic career early by
winning his School Athletic Champ-
ionships three times running, and
captaining the Soccer X3U
Waea he left there, to 1952,
Les worked for Bristol Aero.,and
played for Bristol Rovers, before:
mbmtog to Guilds' to 1953. Lea ob-
tained his I.C. f u l l colours, and
a half-purple, for soccer,to 1954.
During the following season
he played for Bromley P.C., and
gained admittance to the ranks of
true Suildsmem by fti-tHng Part H.
The culmination of one of his
athletic ambitions came two weeks
ago, when he was capped as a Soot-
tish amateur soooer international.
Another of Les' ambitions Is
to beat 1 min. 53 seoa. for the
half-mile. As he is training und-
er Frans Stampfl, there seems no
reason why he should not succeed.
His likes he olasse3 as good plays
good food, and post other things-
dislikes are work and women who
make up i n public
Mr. Locke wishes to point out
that any inadequacies in the above
are due to the Links Club Dinner.
SOCCER
Sat. 25th. Feb Inter-College Six-a-Side Tournament
R.C.S., Guilds and Mines took part in this tournament
and at the last moment 2 teams consisting of Rugby players
who were without a game, were entered, making a total of ten
teams to all, The competition proved to be very enjoyable
and also exhausting, as a l l the games ware played on f u l l
size pitches. In the main competition, surprises were
oaused in the semi-finals when_R.CS. 'A' were defeated by
R.C.S.'B' and Guild's suffered the same fate against their
•B' team. GuildSs won the R.W.*fc9pheas Shield when their
•B' team defeated R.C.S.'B'. - She six comprised of five
Rugby players and Kitchener are to be congratulated on wine:
ntog the 'loser's' competition.
Wed; 29th. Feb. I.C. v. St. Mary's Lo3t 2-5
I.C., considerably weakened because R.C.S. were playing
R.S.M. to the Technology Cup, held out until half-time and
although St. Mary's later took command of the game, I.C. did
as well as could be expected.
Technology Cup: R.O.S. 6. B.S.M. 1
R.C.S. qualified to meet Guild's to the final of the
Tech. Cup by defeating Mines. R.S.K. had no answer to the
speed of H i i l May who scored four of the goals. The Final will
be held on Wednesday the 20th. of March.
H O C K E Y
The Hookey Club have suffered several cancelled games due
to the cold spell, and the 1st XI have been combining much
better to the last few games. The half-back line has now
settled down giving the side a more balanced farm. Recent
1st XI results are as follows:
v, Old Paludiana Drew 1-1
v. Royal Vet Coll. Won 3-0
v. Haling Dean Lost 2-4
Mention must be made of the 2nd. XI's defeat of Baling Dean
by 9-1. During the last ten minutes of the gams, John W.C.
Sherwood, the Captain, was steadily.hitting the ball into
touch as his bank balanoeoould not stand the cost of eleven
pints. of.bitter.
The second Annual Dinner was held on Wednesday 22nd.' of
February. The dissipated appearance of many members on the
following day indicates the success of the occasion. The
captain wishes to point out that whilst members have had wide
experience of scrubbing ladies' backs after mixed hooke|r
matches, the English-type hockey stiok depiojted to the draw-
ing by Plato Jane to the last issue of FELTS, i s no longer
used by members of the dub.
I.C.W.SC SUCCESS
I.C.W.S.C. had-their first SWHXHTG MATCH and (just)
'
T
O
N it{ The match was against U.C, 2'nd team, and the. final
result was 28-23. Janet Petersen swam well to win the
backcrawl and free style events and the team won both
irelaysi. Thus the ladies of I.C. have shown themselves
successful in yet another "porting activity. What will they
try next?
Netball results:-
U.L. Rally: Furzedown Won 8-3
R. Hollcmay lost 7-2
J U D O
During the past two weeks I.C. Judo Club have fought
two matches, losing one and winning one. On Saturday the
18th. of Feb. the Club entertained Cambridge university
Judo Club. I.C. Winners were:
Wright (harauigoshi), Sheppard (counter to sweeping
ankle), Burford (harauigoshi and two hai-otoshi's) and
MaoPherson (drawing ankle and osotogari).
Williams was unfortunate, as he was sat upon straight
away but managed to escape only to be firmly sat upon agatoi
The final result was Cambridge 8 pts. I.C. fi pts.
On Wednesday the 29th. of Feb the Club visited Hatfield
Technical College. This team was not as f i t as the Cam-
bridge team but same, good judo was displayed by both sides.
Burfard, Rotgans, Seth, Sheppard, Williams and Rcdwell
soared far I.C. MaoPhereen surprised everyone, by suddenly
going to the mat, but just to show everyone that he really
did slip, he got up and immediately crashed his opponent
down with Ouohigari followed some few seconds later by a
drawing ankle throw. The final result was Hatfield 2 pts.
I.C. 11 pts.
IC Musical
present
CoooucW IMOGEN HOLST
at Q.A.
- f W Merck l5*-8|»n..
_an«L R«freshm«t\fc»
|v»yiuMiie
Kin* Ar^W-tWVI..
(Me t. «, S<w(» Ur«- tike*
netoe^l Cmw<*« N*.} -tMe>

