EDITORIAL
Editor, Colin Palmer
News Editor. Mary Freeman
Sport* Editor Tim Hillyer
Reviews Editor Mark Smith
Picture Editor Barney McCabe
Photographic Associates: Nick Grattan,
Steve Groves, Aftab Gujral, Paul Johnson,
Andy Lewis, Mickie Marsh, Jeremy
Nunns, Colin Palmer, Ben Bourdillon,
Nigel Tooby, Chris Webb, Marie-Therese
Weech
CCU Correspondents:
City ft Guilds: Bryan Stephenson
Royal School of Mines: Bob Holding
Royal College of Science: Nick
Watmough, Steve Tyson
Internal Affairs Correspondent Mary
Attenborough
College News Teams: Imperial College
Radio News (ICRN) Rob Shepherd, Dave
Fuller, Chris Oalton, John Clark, Simon
Woods, Sarah Talbot. Central Imperial
News Agency (CINA)
Overseas News Editor Aftab Gujral
Associates: Sue Newson, Colin Palmer,
Jill Dawson
Science Correspondent Theo Theocharis
Fiction: Justin Newland
Special Features: Gary Nicholls, Nick
Grattan
Post Graduate Affairs: Richard Earl
ICU Affairs: Roger Stotesbury
Htm Reviews: Mark Smith, Harvey Nadin,
Lars Wernberg-Meller
Record Reviews: Jon Firth, Maz Fellows,
Simon Jerome, Chris Watts, Jeremy.
Nunns
Concert Reviews: Nigel Tooby, Sid
Baylius, Jeremy Nunns
Music Reviews: Sue McClaughry, Frank
James
Theatre Reviews: Tansy Hepton, Mo
Misra
Crosswords: Ian Forrester, Sean O'Boyle
Art Editor Paul Williams
Graphics: Alistair Lenczner
Art and Layout: Colin Palmer, Margaret
Ramsay, Jeremy Nunns, Dave Crabbe,
Derek Everett, Marie-Therese Weech,
Mark Smith, Lars Wernberg-Meller
PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION
Typesetting: Maz Fellows
Printing: Ian Morse
Folding: Lars Wernberg-Meller. Jeremy
Nunns, Colin Palmer, Dave Bryan
Collators: John Whitehouse, Archie
Evans, Val Langmuir, Pat Leggett, Jo
Armitage, Mary Freeman, Lesley
Horrocks, Simon Chandler, Austin Reeve,
Lars Wernberg-Maller, Paul Johnson,
Colin Palmer, Jill Dawson, Katy Tatchell,
Jon Firth, Karen Hardy, Aftab Gujral, Mick
Berry, Adrian Jeakins, Tim Hillyer,
Margaret Ramsay, Marie-Therese Weech,
Tansy Hepton, Mo Misra, Malcolm Brain,
Chris Fox, Nick Grattan
Distribution: Colin Palmer
ADMINISTRATION
Chairman and Hon. Secretary (FELIX
Society): Lars Wernberg-Meller
Business Manager Austin Reeve
Media Liason: Jeremy Nunns
Social Secretary (FELIX Society): Jill
Dawson
FELIX is published by the Editor, on behalf of the ]
Imperial College Union Publications Board F E U X is
printed on the Union premises in Prince Consort
Road, London SW7.
Editor: C R Palmer
FELIX ISSN 0140-0711. Registered at the Post
Office. Copyright F E U X 1980.
FELIX, the Editor of F E U X and Union Officers
cannot accept liability in respect of errors or
omissions contained in articles herein.
O n Friday 25th January you will find a
questionnaire between the centre pages of
FELIX. This is a rare opportunity for FELIX,
I C U and the College to find out valuable
information which will perhaps influence major
decisions taken in the 80s.
Y o u have the opportunity to come up with
suggestions as to what questions or facts
should be gathered in the questionnaire. Please
write or visit the FELIX Office to discuss your
ideas.
I originally decided to have a ten percent
sample questionnaire just on the content of
FELIX, but the idea has snowballed into a full
4,000 run A4 questionnaire.
Some of the areas that will be covered are:
T h e M e d i a : D o you read FELIX? If so, what
changes would you like to see in the paper?
H o w much effect does all the work put in by
members of IC Radio and S T O I C have on
College life?
- A c c o m m o d a t i o n : By now you are settled in
your digs, hall or house. Are you happy there?
What improvement would you like to see
implemented?
Entertainment: D o you study every night? If
not, does I C U deliver the goods or do you
look outside College for entertainment?
F o o d : When do you eat? College refectories
or Kentucky Fried Chicken?
B a r s : A topical question. D o you care what
happens to College bars?
Entertainment at Imperial is a I C U subject
that urgently needs to be discussed. The I C U
sabbaticals have been giving thought to the
running of the Union. We are in a good
position to make some decisions but in the
area of entertainment the solution is not so
straight forward. T o quote Chris, "I haven't
managed to come up with much yet." In this
Editorial I hope to stimulate discussion in the
same way that I covered the subject of Imperial
College Women's Association (ICWA) in my
last Editorial.
At first I thought that one solution may be to
centralise the organising of entertainment by
creating a post in the Union — say Social
Secretary. This would work if we could
annually find a dynamic personality to take on
the job. H e would almost have to* be a
sabbatical and in the present climate there isn't
any extra cash flowing around for a fifth one!
The job descriptions of one of the present
sabbaticals could be changed to incorporate
that of a Social Secretary. However, judging by
the look of exhaustion on most of the Exec's
faces last term, they have enough to do
already. (As a quick interruption, I would like
to define what I mean by the term I C U Exec.
In my motion 'Public Image', I referred to the
Exec and I mean the I C U President, D P and
H o n S e c plus the three V i c e Presidents
(Presidents of Guilds, Mines and R C S j .
The Social Secretary, as a non-sabbatical
would need an active team working with him.
At Imperial we are obsessed with committees
and I don't wish to see another created. Most
of the major decisions seem to be taken over
coffee in the Bot/Zoo Common Room rather
than during a committee meeting. (Have you
seen the newly decorated Bot/Zoo yet?)
Having a team working with him the Soc Sec
would be able to plan a week's entertainment.
It is crazy having a giant gig in the Great Hall
and still expecting Folk club to have a large
audience on the same night! Each evening
should be set aside to one major event or
several minor ones. T h e r e are a limited
number of students who are inspired to join in
with student entertainment at IC and so they s
hould either be encouraged to go to one big
event or to spread themselves over more
specialised activities catering for smaller
numbers.
Perhaps you are beginning to realise how
important the questionnaire (outlined above) is
in our attempts to help you have a good time
at Imperial. If we know how m u c h time
students allocate to relaxing, and what things
you like to do then, there is a better chance of
giving you what you want.
The ratio of men to women at Imperial has
been a challenging problem for nearly a
century. Until we find the time to encourage
girls from outside College to come to IC events
then we are going to be stuck with a 9:1 ration.
We can learn from organisers of Tizard Hall
discos; they manage to fill the J C R with nurses
and students from female colleges. Dancing
Club has many girl members from outside IC.
Ten years ago there were hardly any women at
IC and so girls had to be encouraged to visit
us, but now we have a large enough number in
the College to give an illusion that we are a
'mixed' social environment.
Before we all rush off to invite girls to IC
events we must make sure that they have a
good time while they are here, so that they'll
come back for more entertainment.
London is dead if you're on your own;
discos, theatre, films and bars have lost the
social atmosphere that once made them ideal
places to meet new friends. New clubs for
singles are springing up everywhere but they
cater for people in their mid-twenties.
Universities can contribute to improving not
only student life in London but also the social
life of people in their early twenties who live
and work in London. There are dozens of
secretarial colleges in London, that haven't any
social events. Students at Imperial who live in
the halls of residence are not keen on travelling
to areas of entertainment, but if you're on you
own, living in digs, then travelling to an event is
a minor hassle.
A n event must not only entertain but also
give people a chance to break the ice. I believe
that even at Imperial there are still many shy
students who have not fully broken through
the barriers that hold them back from making
new friends. We should have more ice-breaker
events where second and third years make an
effort to introduce freshers to each other.
Freshers' dinners, dinner in hall etc all help but
there aren't enough events where students can
make new friends.
At a party or disco it is not easy to form a
lasting relationship. If you're watching a film in
a cinema or in Mech Eng 220 there is little
chance to talk, except in the aueue or while
traveling to the cinema. Rag activities are good
because there is an aim to the event as well as
giving students the chance to meet each other.
However, of the 4,000 plus students at IC the
ones who get involved with Rag are usually the
more outgoing students.
If we invite girls from outside College to an
event then it will be an evening activity which
unless it's held in the summer will be indoors.
Several girls from outside get involved in the
media at IC: presenting programmes for
S T O I C , being a D J for IC Radio or by taking
photos for FEI.IX. This is an ideal way for
lasting links to be created. However, most girls
visit us onre and it's their 'first impressions'
that guide their choice to return. Just a disco
is not enough to break the ice. A planned
evening's entertainment where the visitors get
involved in games or events that encourage the
initial barriers of shyness to be b r o k e n ,
coupled with a disro for part of the time would
be better. Several recognised hosts could go
round introducing the visitors to students at
IC.
Colin Palmer
(FELIX Editor)

