Royal
School
off
Mining &
Metallurgical
Society
ROBERT N PRYOR
MEMORIAL LECTURE
the Mining and Metallurgical Society is sponsoring the First Annua
Memorial Lecture to the late Professor Robert N Pryor. The lecture will
be given by Sir Mark Turner, Chairman and Chief Executive of Rio
Tlnto Zinc Corporation Ltd, on Monday, 14th January, 1980 at 6:00pm
in Mechanical Engineering Lecture Theatre 220. The lecture will be on
the topic of International British-based Companies in a Nationalistic
World. All are cordially invited to attend.
PG TIPS
Our questionnaire has now been out
for a month, so I feel it would be both
interesting and instructive to look at the
results so far. The response has not been
e a r t h - s h a t t e r i n g but with 135 P h D
students returning their forms so far, we
can identify general trends.
Perhaps the most surprising feature of
the questionnaire is that, of all P h D
students who have returned, some 68.1%
are satisfied with the way their PhD is
going and only 26% are definitely not
satisfied. Also, there seems to be a wide
chasm between students' expectations
and reality as to how long a PhD actually
takes. Some 53.3% thought that they
would be finished in three years (total),
whereas in fact hardly anybody finishes in
three years. Of course, we should not
discourage optimism, but it is disturbing
that so few PhD students realize the
extent of the problem.
The "average" P h D student spends
44.2 hours in College per week and works
5.9 hours at home. This is not surprising:
it is well understood by most potential
PhD students that they will need to do
considerably more work than the 35
hours (and less!) per week that is
commonplace in industry.
The majority of students (65.9%) felt
that they h a d been given adequate
supervision at the start, and only 27.4%
felt that they had not. 'Research training*
emerged as the most popular reason for
doing a PhD with 76.3% in favour, but
there were some other interesting replies
given to this question: ego trip, mental
acrobatics, fun etc. The Union is certainly
not popular with PGs: 51.9% had no time
for it and only 26.7% said that they
definitely did have time.
T h e above conclusions have been
drawn from returns so far (14.5% of all
PhD students). The full results of the
questionnaire will appear in a later edition
FELIX.
As I have already stated, the response
has not been that good and it would be
extremely useful to receive many more
completed answers. There is an oppor-
tunity to submit the results of the survey
to the Working Party into Postgraduate
Education, but I would be loath to do this
with a representation of only one in
seven.
The response has, in fact, varied quite
considerably between departments, the
worst offenders being: Aeronautics (0%),
Mech Eng (9.4%) and Chemistry (9%).
Full marks to the following departments
for a well above average response:
Botany (25%), History of Science and
Technology (50%)(an anomaly, I admit!)
and Physics (24.4%).
So, if you still have the form lying
around, please complete it! Also, there
will be a committee meeting of the P G
Group in the Green Committee Room
(Union Building) at 12:30pm on Tuesday
15th January, which everyone is welcome
to attend. We will be planning social
events for the term.
Finally, I would like to send many
thanks to those who have returned the
questionnaire with constructive sugges-
tions: these will be studied in detail. This
response has more than offset the
haughty "mind your own business" replies
which have been received from some
quarters.
M I N E S
It's back to the old routine again and
here's a brief list of various thingies that
are line up for us this term:
January 14th: Prof R N Pryor Memorial
Lecture. 6:00pm. Mech Eng 220. This
should prove interesting as we have the
chairman of R T Z , Sir Mark Turrer talking
to us on the role of international mining
companies in a nationalised world.
J a n u a r y 1 7 t h : G e n e r a l C o m m i t t e e
Meeting.
January 27th: R S M Rugby Sevens. Get
together the halt, blind, lame and bone
idle and enter a team. See the list outside
G20.
F e b r u a r y 1 5 t h — 1 6 t h : C a m b o u r n e
Weekend — 2 Ruby Games, 1 Football
Game, Squash and Badminton. Players
are urgently needed for the last two
sports, so if you can handle a racquet and
are mobile, please see Pete Newman.
F e b r u a r y 2 6 t h : A n o t h e r G e n e r a l
Committee Meeting.
M a r c h 2nd: Nottingham Sevens. A rugby
sevens competition between various
mining departments in Britain for the
Union Corporation Shield.
M a r c h 18th: Another General Commit-
tee meeting.
M a r c h 20th: Election. U G M followed by
the Annual Brighton trip.
M a r c h 29th April 4th: Foreign Stud-
ents Trip to Delft, Holland. This is after
term ends, so you won't miss any
lectures.
6

