etter
S
m
a
l
l Ads
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Congratulations to Ken, Nigel, John, Rhys, Paul
and Dave on completing the .Bean's Run Monday
night.
• The engagement is announced between Paul
Shanley of Bean's Club and Judith Hackney of
FELIX. Telegrams via box 462.
• C&G May Ball-Friday May 20, tickets £ 4 2 still
available.
• Baby Sitter needed. 21 Yeomans Row SW3. £ 2
per hour, one baby boy (16 months), probably 1 or
2 evenings a week, supper supplied if needed.
• Any remaining pre-1982 Rag Mags are going to
be re-cycled. If you want any please contact Fiona
Nicholas through the Biochemistry pigeonholes or
through IC Union Office.
• Italian speaker required for regular conversation.
Contact Paul Smith, Management School, Room
423, int 7017.
P E R S O N A L
• Cheers! Paul & Judith.
• Which came first, the random or the rucksack?
• Rhino Club: Sod off. The Gauntlet Club.
• Spot the odd one out: Cosmic, Bradshaw,
Waghorn, Brereton.
• We lied. They're all completely random.
• What goes .faster than Superman? Chas 'honker'
Brereton's lunch.
• How comes PK gets all the publicity? Andy,
Penthouse Club.
• Last week's lack of entertainment in the smali
ads was due to exam pressure. Sorry. The
Penthouse Club.
• Belated Happy Easter to all you ladies out there.
The Penthouse Club.
• The Penthouse Club wishes to formally
announce its new status as a soveriegn state. We
have been forced to take this unprecedented step
to avoid paying this term's room bills.
• Dai Rocking? More like Dai Bonking! Penthouse
Club
• Congratulations Paul and Judith-The Bean's
Club.
• Is Pressy-Boy really gay?
• Can S&N really be serious?
• I did not say this-The Rector.
• Long live Prophylatic-press, king of the airwaves.
• Will Neil really strip on the radio, or will he fail
off like everyone else?
• Tune into IC Radio on Mondays at 8am.
• PS. Southside now get IC Radio. Poor sods.
• Don't know what to do wiv your biro after filling
in part of your housing benefit form? IC Amnesty
meets Tues 1.30pm, Brown Committee Room.
• Think Tarbuck's new chat show is totally evil?
Then campaign against torture with IC Amnesty,
Tues 1.30pm, Brown Committee Room.
• Got a good sense of direction? Find your way
around mazes? Then can you make it to Brown
Committee Room, Tues 1.30pm?
• Fed up with people chucking peanuts at you in
lectures then campaign against torture with IC
Amnesty, Tues 1.30pm, Brown Committee Room.
LOST
• Could who ever picked up my Levis red label
jean jacket after Geno Washington in the Union on
Saturday night please contact me via Mech Eng
pigeonholes. Cheers. Paul Thompson, Mech Eng 3.
PS. I've got someone's Next jacket that was left
over at the end of the evening.
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• For this term. Single room in Fulham (nr Earl's
Court) rent around £25 per week (after rebate).
Contact Steve Kiimurray, c/o IC Union Office.
Militants reply to
Huntbach
Dear Matthew,
Thank you for your latest 'insight' into the 'sinister CU
militants'. I'd be quite interested to know where you get
your information from. It's quite obvious from your letter
that you could not have attended any of the CU meetings
that I've been to. Like an 'extreme left-wing party', with
'pressure to conform'! Maybe you refer to the 'statement
of faith' that voting members are asked to sign. Most
evangelical Christians should have no problem agreeing
with it, and it ensures continuity over the years. Without
it may be like giving over an art gallery to be run by a
group of Philistines; its content would soon cease to reflect
its name.
I have used the term 'evangelical Christian'
purposefully; I agree with your point that 'Christian
Union' is a misleading name. This is being looked into,
and will hopefully result in its amendment. I don't quite
see how this lends itself to such a bitter attack on the CU
body as a whole though.
There's an open door at all CU meetings and Bible
studies, all are welcome, only voting membership is
restricted as above. Should you attend such a Bible study,
you will discover that discussions are free and open.
There's certainly no pressure to believe anything. People
share their views of scripture, basing their thoughts on
the word of God, not on feelings of tradition. You see,
as evangelical Christians, we believe that the Bible records
the word of God, and so we look to it, through God's
spirit, for written guidance and authority. Tradition relies
upon handing down the key and important aspects of
Christianity from generation to generation. Both of these
beliefs have potential pitfalls. The former
misinterpretation, the latter—a small deviation from the
correct path some time ago can result in a large deviation
now. Evangelically, misinterpretation can be reduced in
the light of what the Bible says as a whole. This provides
a firm foundation from which we can understand more
of the character of God, and learn how to live lives
pleasing to him.
You inferred that quotation from the epistles wasn't good
enough, and that Christ's own words were ignored in
previous replies. Isn't this somewhat naive? Have you ever
read the epistles? Evidently not very thoroughly as you
consider them only to give advice about Jewish laws on
diet and circumcision. I agree that these things are written
about, but along with many other important issues. The
Corenthians, for example, needed correcting because they
took the freedom aspect of Christianity too far, in that
they were causing other, easily-led people to
misunderstand the true nature and purposes of God. This
is that God, through his Son, wants to know everyone
personally; helping them, by his Spirit, to live lives
pleasing to Him, and consequently helpful to others here
on earth. Jesus said that 'I am the way, the truth and the
lifer No one comes to the Father except through me'. He
also says (in Matt 7:21 ;23) that not everyone who says
to Him 'Lord, Lord' will enter the Kingdom of Heaven.
He says this about those who do things which look Holy
and Righteous on the outside, but inside are dead-
unknown to God. The Pharasees, for example, were wrong
in that they thought they would keep the Mosaic Law, and
forget about their friendship with God, and in this way
attain salvation. Jesus knew this, and is why He calls them
a 'Brood of Vipers', 'Hypocrites' etc in Matt 23. They
looked Holy, but they did things for me to see in order
to boast, not for the Glory of God.
A 'Christian version of the Militant Tendency', a 'strong
psychological pressure to conform'. If your 'real concern
is for Christianity' then show the nature of Christ at work
by at least finding the truth about the C U before writing
against it.
Yours sincerely,
Neil Robinson, Physics 2.
Michael Arthur Loads-a-money
Dear Judith,
Have any of your readers noticed the blinding similarity
between College Assistant Secretary Loadsamoney and
Friday Night Live star Michael Arthur?
I wonder if, by chance, they are related?
Cheers,
Sally Hupena.
PS. Do I get five pounds?
They're coming
to take him away
Dear Judith,
Congratulations on lifting the news stories about the
'New Optician' and 'Health Education' ( F E L K 800) from
the April issue of the Imperial College Gazette. It's a pity
that whoever skimmed through looking for articles missed
possibly the most important announcement, at the top of
page one, on the appointment of the next Dean of City
and Guilds College.
While I'm putting pen to paper, why have the windows
to the FELIX Office from Beit Quad been covered from
the inside by red paper? Is it to make the place even more
intimidating for normal students so keeping it extremely
cliquey inside? Or is it perhaps to stop the legendary
'FELIX spirit' escaping?
Yours observantly,
Adrian Bourne, Physics 2.
PS. A quote from one of your editorials (FELIX 794)
'if you have any criticisms about the contents of FELIX,
please write in straight away.'
FELIX Friday 6th May 1988 IS

