• NORMAN 'NUTBURGER'
JARDINE, suspended Union Snack
Bar Manager, was well aware that he
was being investigated by a crack
squad of Union officers last term. He
was under no misapprehension about
who was being watched when he was
picking up his stock from Beit Arch.
The SAS-style sniper in charge of
operations slightly gave the game
away. Who could fail to miss Dave
'Cosmic Ferret' Clements peering at
you through binoculars from the
Aeronautical Engineering Department
foyer? Cosmic, eager to seem casual
about his spying, then sat down and
read a paper as Mr Jardine cheerily
waved back at him.
• SI BICHARA is often to be heard
on IC Radio, promoting their new
'Summer Sound'. However, if the
truth be told it seems to be more of
a 'Summer Silence'. IC Radio has cut
ten hours from its weekday schedule,
and a further twelve hours were cut
from the weekends. Have IC Radio
forgotten they are supposed to provide
a service, or maybe it's just that they
don't care.
• SATURDAY'S RAG FETE ended
with the Rag A G M a the top of the
Queen's Tower. Present was ICU
DP-elect Chas Brereton who decided
to show everyone what he's had to eat
at the fete. Having devoured four
Chaps curries, three ICCAG burgers
and numerous pints of Fosters,
'Honker' Brereton felt highly ill. The
resulting mess is said to have
completely covered the top floor of
the QT.
• CHAS BRERETON'S fatal
attraction to the birds has been well
documented in this column, but
recently it seems to have been having
an effect more literally in two counts.
This weekend he tried to befriend a
pigeon in Beit Quad, and the
unfortunate animal was found dead on
the ground a few hours later. What's
more, on Monday the corpses of a
further two pigeons were found
outside the Queen's Tower. Is there
a connection? I think we should be
told.
Information required on the following topics:
biacKMAiL
• As no one took the hint last week regarding a CCU executive
member, maybe I should elaborate. Why is RSM President Geoff
Parsons officially registered with College as a Life Sci student ie an
RCS member?
• 'The Return of Sydney': A revelation came to light recently regarding
Ken Young, Southwell House Warden, offering Sydney Harbour-Bridge
the Subwardenship of the aforementioned residence. I smell a rat
because I can now reveal that Mr Young has been named as Mr
Harbour-Bridge's running mate for the 1989 sabbatical elections. Was
a deal stuck between the ICU President and the former RCC Chairman?
• The reason the ICU President didn't attempt to no-confidence his
Deputy was that a counter-threat was made. Alan Rose said that if
he was no-confidenced, he would in turn no-confidence Sydney
Harbour-Bridge. Mr Harbour-Bridge withdrew his bid to oust his DP
when he realised which bid was more likely to go through.
At Guilds recent Dinner and Dance, 144 tickets were sold at £ 6 5 per
ticket. This makes £ 9 3 6 0 . Someone high up in Guilds stated that the
D & D cost £ 1 3 , 0 0 0 . They claim that the deficit was made up by
the Old Centralians. At a recent RCS event, the OC's rep denied this,
putting the figure nearer £ 1 0 0 . Where did the other £3!/2K come from?
Can Guilds refute my allegations that it came from a secret bank
account which has been set up to carry-over Ents profits? If so, are
ICU aware of it?
Guilds May Ball looks set to lose around £2>2K if it goes ahead.
Sixty double tickets remain unsold. How can they cover such a loss
if this slush fund doesn't exist?
On this subject, why are the Union turning a blind eye to so many
illegal second bank accounts that are well-known by everyone?
Why did a female LSE student throw a drink over Guilds Motor Club
hack, Adrian Bourne, last Friday night?
No one coughed up for last week's items of Blackmail so I've no option
but to reveal names.
1) Mr Martyn Peck was the nipple-sucker.
2) Messrs Andrew 'Midget' Thompson and Paul Shanley were the
interrogators. The transcript will follow.
3) Mr Paul Shanley (again!) was bought for £ 8 5 . See libel for more
details.
4) The two students who chatted up a Wimbledon prostitute were
Mr Andrew Thompson (again!) and Mr Ben Hodgson.
This week's Blackmail:
1) Two people were caught bonking in the bell-tower of the Queen's
Tower at Saturday's Rag Fete. Five pounds from each by Monday
lunchtime enables me to forget their names. BONG!
2) 170 Queen's Gate held a party a while back. Two prominent
members of the College hierarchy were in the toilet together. I'm
reliably informed that no bonking took place but the lady in question
did have her knickers down. The gentleman admits it but the lady
is keeping very quiet. A fiver from Lady Godiva buys my silence.
If there is any scandal, cover-up or dodgy deal going on in your
department, hall, etc, don't keep it to yourself-tell Delator. All
information is in the strictest confidence. Send to 'Blackmail', FELIX,
Beit Quad.
Delator
P.S. If you are going to send in any smut, please give me alt the details!
•WHILST ON the subject of Rag
Fete, the party in the evening saw
Union President Syd Harbour-Bridge
discussing his plans for the Union
reorganisation. The poor soul who
had to listen to the Bridge's
monologue was one Sumeet Ghaie
(pronounced GAY), a Physics first
year. So interesting was Mr HB's
lecture that Mr Ghaie fell asleep half
way through the conversation!
• HAVING ALREADY been
soaked in the stocks by Lucy Bayler,
Elizabeth from EastEnders, Martyn
Prick turned his attention to working
on the tombola stall at Rag Fete. One
customer was heard to ask Prick:
'Why are you dripping wet?'. 'Oh,
I got drenched by the Australian bint,
who can't act, off of EastEnders',
Prick replied.
Standing next to Prick's customer
was an Australian bint, who can't act,
off of EastEnders.
• SOME PEOPLE will do anything
to raise a bit of money for Rag. Some
will sell their names to the highest
bidder:
... .whilst others will sell their bodies
to any old random:
r** 1**/ j»l»*v*
tLJ-e. ix*^cK (
j
«
:
*
a
j
,
.
-
_
i~-pty',.J. Collect, \i
W» \\ie\*%. TWii I
O- V : | yv. K-w- W*--——"-
teUL
Holbein House's favourite heart-
throb, Paul Shanley, managed to get
£85 out of Sunny Bains for a night of
unbridled passion. If anybody else
wishes to buy Shan's body, we're
taking bookings this lunchtime in the
FELIX Office.
Chris Jones
FELIX Friday 6th May 1988 5

