U N D E R l B L T H E
MICRORJSCOPE
by Steve Black
Why cats have
nine lives
One of the problems with scientists
is that they tend to study only those
problems that are easy to study. So
they tend to neglect things like old-
wives-tales as unworthy of their
consideration. 'Cats have nine lives'
is rejected as a scientific proposition
because it doesn't even seem to make
logical sense. But, every now and
then some brave soul sets out to
investigate the truth behind such folk-
knowledge. Two New York vets have
just applied science to our folk
knowledge about cats.
New York is a good place to study
cat's relative number of lives since
there are a large number of multi-
storey apartment complexes and
therefore a wide range of distances for
cats to fall. Conveniently people also
fall from these windows so
comparisons of the mortality rate can
be made.
If you look at plots of injuries and
deaths versus distance of fall then the
differences between people and cats
become really obvious. People never
survived falls when they fell more
than seven stories onto concrete. But
only about one in nine cats falling less
than 15 stories actually died (note the
interesting ratio). Strangely, the
number of injuries and deaths peaks
at about 6 stories for cats: those
falling more than 6 floors had fewer
injuries.
Some of these facts have obvious
explanations. People reach a terminal
velocity of about 120 miles per hour
after falling about 6 or 7 stories. Few
survive an impact with concrete at
that speed. Cats have a higher surface
area to mass ratio and therefore reach
a terminal velocity of only 60mph
after about six stories. Cats also land
better than people: they are able to
twist rapidly into a position with all
four legs facing the ground. People
tend to flail about aimlessly and while
they may land on their feet they will
do so untidily: this does nothing for
their chances of survival. Human
babies aparently tend to land on their
heads (though how the authors of the
study managed to find examples of
babies dropping out of tall buildings
is beyond me). Cats dissipate the
energy impact over all four limbs and
this does wonders for their
survivability.
There even appears to be a sensible
explanation for the mysterious peak
in the feline morality rate at drops of
7 stories. Apparently cats relax once
they have stopped accelerating (they
reach terminal velocity at about six
or seven floors). When they relax,
their muscles are not so tense and they
tend to hold their legs out
horizontally. This increases their air
resistance, slows them down and also
provides a better impact position:
relaxed bent limbs dissipate the
energy better than rigid straight ones
(this is what parachutists are taught).
So cats falling more than seven floors
are more likely to survive.
So there you have it: not all old
wives tales are nonsense. Cats are
more likely to survive falls than
people. Folk wisdom even got the
ratio right: cats are about nine times
more likely to survive than we are.
The only thing science has failed to
come up with is an explanation of why
so many cats and people throw
themselves from high buildings in
New York.
Better than
science fiction
Science fiction only rarely produces
really believable alien monsters. Even
when it does, few of the creatures are
as unusual as the strange beasties that
inhabit Earth's extremities (deep sea
fish, for example). But even our
present-day ecosystems contain
nothing unusual when compared to
some ancient assemblages of wacky
creatures.
Unfortunately for paleontologists
(fossil hunters to you and me) few
ancient creatures had the decency to
die under the sort of conditions that
turned the interesting bits of their
bodies into stone. So the fossil record
is dominted by the hard bits of things
that take a long time to rot: shells,
skeletons, teeth, finger nail clippings
and so on. Usually the poor
paleontologist has to reconstruct the
rest of the creature using his
imagination, though sometimes
similar living creatures may be
around to give him a clue. If the entire
group of creatures has been extinct for
300 million years then any such
reconstruction is likely to be
unreliable to say the least.
Occasionally (we're talking very
very infrequently here—say once
every 100 million years) something
happens that preserves a detailed
record of a whole bunch of associated
creatures soft parts and all. One of the
most outstanding examples of this
occurred about 520m years ago last
November. A large undersea
landslide consisting of very fine-
grained mud, buried a whole
ecosystem almost instantaneously.
The fossilised remains of this
landslide is now called the Burgess
Shale and is located in British
Columbia.
The fine grained nature of the mud
preserved soft body parts in minute
detail. Some of the creatures can even
be cut open to reveal what they had
for lunch. X-ray pictures of the shale
can also reveal subtle internal
structures.
When the shale was first discovered
paleontologists tried to fit the
creatures they could see into the
known categories of Cambrian (this
is the geological epoch that lasted
from about 600m to 500m years ago)
fossils. However, recent detailed
work has shown that the shale
contains some very weird creatures
that have never been seen anywhere
else. In fact the creatures in the shale
fit into about 18 broad categories
(phyia to experts). 10 of these phyia
are found nowhere else (all living
creatures fit into about 35 phyia).
Some of the creatures are very very
unusual and make the imaginations of
science fiction writers seem feeble by
comparison. One beastie, called for
obvious reasons Hallucigenia, walked
on seven pairs of rigid stilts, had
seven feeding tentacles on its back
each with a forked tip, had a heavy
eyeless head and a gut that opened
upwards. One assemblage of fossils
shows a group of them scavenging a
dead body. Another monster is called
Anomalocaris. It was over one metre
long (though they were probably still
on Imperial units in those days) and
shaped like a ray. It had long rippling
flaps underneath a harder shell.
Apparently it drifted along the sea
floor grabbing unsuspecting bottom
dwellers in its two jointed appendages
and popping them into its circular
mouth set on the bottom of its head.
Several lucky trilobites have been
found that survived an encounter with
Anomalocaris with nothing more than
a scar.
The Burgess shale appears to be
unusual only in the quality of the
fossils: many of the traditional hard-
shell Cambrian creatures are also
found there. It's just that everywhere
else the soft bits rotted before the
creatures were fossilised. So life in
the Cambrian was a great deal more
varied than we could have imagined.
There also seems to be no particular
reason why some of the creatures
survived while others died out. Indeed
it looks as if the process of evolution
throws up a lot of pretty bizarre
experiments most of which will,
purely by chance, fail. If things had
only been slightly different then, then
the world would be completely
different now. So if we ever do
discover life on another planet, it may
well have fourteen legs, seven
tentacles and no eyes: it certainly
won't be what we expect.
6 Friday 6th May 1988 FELIX

