200th ISSUE
The third Felix this term will be
the 200th issue, and will appear
ONE WEEK after the 199th.
Thus there will be three consecu-
tive weeks in which Felix will be
on sale. DATES FEB. 5th., FEB.
12th., FEB. 19th., and then fort-
nightly. PRICE 4d. as usual
START SAVING NOW.
EXEC. LOSING
CONTROL?
WORKING PARTY FORMED
The"Worker's" Editor
Mr. George Mathews, on a visit to I.C. last week, was exclusively
interviewed by a Felix reporter and questioned on his views on the
student press. He emphasised the responsibility of a newspaper, and
said it should actively encourage greater student representation to
the governing bodies. He did not envisage, he said, a University
run by students, but one where a REPONSIBLE body had consider-
able say in its administration.
The college newspaper should not have an Editor completely
independent, but rather responsible to an editorial board. This board
he thought should not consist of the same persons on College Council,
but of impartial and responsible observers. If possible it should run
with no advertising, but with Felix receiving two-thirds of its revenue
from this source, he agreed that it was likely to be impractical. In
short, the newspaper should stimulate interest in all aspects of College
life.
A report of Mr. Mathew's lecture appears elsewhere in this
Issue.
Rachmanism
A working party has been set up by Council to investigate the
running of the Union. It was felt that the work of the executive
had grown so much that there was a danger of them losing control,
particularly in the newly-opened South Side. Also the number of
committees that the President has to attend has grown disproporT
tionably with the growth of the College.
The working party consists of Dave Watson, the President who
discovered the problems, Les Massey, the Secretary, John Preece,
last year's Secretary, Bob Shroter, President of C. & G. Union, Roger
Henson, Chairman of R.C.C., and Norman Price.
If any major changes are to take place they must be discussed
by Council and passed by two consecutive Union meetings. This
means that the working party's recommendations must be finalised
within the next week or two if they are to be acted upon this year.
The working party is at the moment (15th January) still a long
way from coming to any unanimous decisions, but their recommenda-
tions will almost certainly include the following :
1. The creation of a post of
Vice (or Deputy) President who
will be responsible for house
affairs, i.e. staff, furnishings, bar,
refectories.
2. The creation of a post of
Halls Representative to sit on
Council.
3. The removal of three of the
six ordinary Council members
who have no special responsibi-
lity.
It has been brought. to the
notice of the College Administra-
tion that there are certain persons
operating in the London area who
try to induce prospective tenants
of property to part with consider-
able sums of money for rent in
advance or as deposits against
damages and dilapidations. There-
after tenants have been unable to
contact the so-called landlords
and obtain a refund of these de-
posits.
Members of the College who
are seeking accommodation, and
FORTHCOMING EVENTS
Wednesday, 22nd January
U.L. Rugby Competition
I.C. v. King's College
Friday, 24th January
Engineers' Dinner-Dance
Tuesday, 28th January
South Side Residents' Concert
Wednesday, 29th, January
Jazz Club Hop
Sunday 2nd February to
Sunday, 9th February
Anglican Society Teaching Week-
end at I.C.
Who are asked to part with sum
in cash before any tenancy is
entered into, are advised to con-
sult either their solicitors or the
Establishments Officer (Tel. Int.
2203 Ext. 81) before paying over
any sums or signing any docu-
m e n t s
- M , J. DAVIES,
Secretary.
P A R T Y POLITICAL
With the approach of General
Elections and the political cam-
paigners already on the move,
Felix will be printing a series of
three articles, one from each
party. The first, with Mr. Grim-
mond at I.C., in the near future,
is from the Liberal Party and ap-
pears in this issue. The others are
planned for later in the term.
T H E RECTOR IN INDIA
At the invitation of the Indian
Government and as a member of
the Reviewing Committee of the
Indian Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research the Rector is
visiting India for about six weeks
from the 22nd January, 1964.
While he is away Professor P.
M . S. Blackett, F.R.S., as Pro-
Rector, will act as head of the
College.
At the moment there is dis-
agreement as to whether the Vice
(or Deputy) President shall have a
house committee consisting of one
member for Beit and one for
South Side to help him, and if
they exist, how they shall be
elected. There is also doubt about
what to call this person; the Presi-
dents of the constituent colleges
(Vice-Presidents of I.C.) feel that
if they lose this secondary title
it will diminish the influence of
the constituent colleges.
Thjs is not the first time that
some of these suggestions have
been made. In January '62, Si
Lyle, then President of the Union,
suggested the formation of posts
of Deputy President and Halls
Representative and the setting up
of a house committee.
Three or four years ago, if a
student had a problem about
Union facilities he could call in at
the Union office and find someone
who could help him, but now one
rarely sees the executive who al-
ways seem to be at a meeting
or " not about" I feel that the
creation of a Vice-President whose
job it is to be available and
see that Beit and South Side run
smoothly would again create an
interest in the Union because peo-
ple would feel that someone would
take some notice of their com-
ments and complaints. I think
that having a person responsible
for each building might increase
this but an efficient Vice-President
might well be able to do the Job
single-handed.
R. M . HENSON
G O R D O N
L O W E S
T H E IDEAL SPORTS SHOP
GOOD DISCOUNTS FOR
ALL I.C. MEMBERS
21-23 Brompton Arcade,
Knightsbridge, S.W3
K E N 4494/5/6
The Liberal View - p. 7

