4 F E L I X
E D I T O R I A L
" T H E PILGRIM'S PROGRESS "
An average member of the Union was recently asked what
he thought the Executive had achieved this year: after a moment's
silence he replied, " Well, you certainly have to think, don't you ?"
and then a few moments later added :
" He's a nice sort of chap, anyway." Indeed, one may well ask
what they have achieved ; what is there in this Union, apart from
our own glorious complacency, on which we can lavish praise. Now
we have the answer; in President Watson's own words, " The best
thing the Union has done this year."
The establishment of a Working Party is in theory an excellent
idea ; in practice its progress will have many pitfalls, and it will
require a firm chairman to end the course with a positive result.
The strong-individual prejudices to be overcome will require vigorous
leadership even at the risk of treading on a few toes. So far a con-
siderable programme has been covered and one can only hope that
its proposals will not be discarded by some of the less far-seeing
members of Council. One of theiT proposals is to remove Council's
" dead wood " but doubtless it will be the " dead wood " which will
resist most determinedly. Having been passed by Council, if indeed
they are, they will then have to be accepted at two Union Meetings.
This part of their passage should not be fraught with the perils faced
inTJouncil. It is claimed that not enough people speak at Union,'
meetings, but at least they do not query and baulk just for the sake
of it.
WANTED : A F U L L TIME TYPIST
Perhaps the most useful thing the Working Party could do would
be to recommend that the Union employ a full time secretary solely
for the use of Union Officials and organisers. At present one has
to enlist secretaries, girl friends, or just anyone who can type for
the purpose of putting things legibly on to paper. Felix itself uses
many typing hours a week and it is sometimes a full-time job enlist-
ing help. The alternative of one-finger-do-it-yourself is to say
the least unsatifactory. Were this idea put into practice then the
present executive could shout from the rooftops that they had made
some real extra contribution to the lot of the student.
Many congratulations to the President for his forethought in
forming the Working Party, but the hardest part has yet to come.
RESPONSIBLE TO W H O M ?
The Editor of the Daily Worker last week raised an interesting
point; to whom should an editor be responsible ? At Imperial he
is directly responsible to the Felix board, which is of course a highly
reasonable arrangement, for no student should be given absolute
power. However, Who is to sit on this board ? At present this does
not appear to be clearly defined, but the five central figures are the
Union Executive. Mr. Mathews suggested that this was in fact unde-
sirable, iof it gave power-to those who already had it; carrying this
line of argument even further, the executive have complete power
at I.C. in that they, can silence their most effective critic.
This year the executive have on the whole been co-operative,
but there have been occasions when criticism of the Unions has been
taken up at board meetings instead of in the columns of the News-
paper for all to see. .If the executive should be taking some line
with which Felix disagrees, it is only too easy for them to find some-
one else to toe the line.
Surely it would be far better to have on the Felix board no
more than one member of the excutive, and the remainder impartial
but responsible Union members ; the Chairman of the ACC, R C C
and SCC should be on it, as indeed they already are, but the rest
should be persons with no particular line to sell or axe to grind.
It becomes a farce when each person on the board tries to plug his
own particular field. It is astonishing how confined an outlook can
become in the higher levelsof bureaucracy in this Union ; the editor's
job becomes one of constantly trying to retain his objectivity and
ignore futile suggestions from a sincere but misguided minority. Two
years ago the President of the Union made a costly mistake over the
printing of Felix ; had he been trying to sell his idea to a separate
committee instead of to his own executive, the Union might have
been spared almost three hundred pound's.
Mr. Mathews, in his general studies lecture, claimed there was
no freedom of the press ; perhaps the student press is not quite so
free as it appears either, and it may be time that the Felix board
re-examined its own composition.
THE L I T E R A R Y STANDARD
Elated Guildsman Bishop was
last week telling how his poem,
turned down three years ago by
his school magazine, was now in
print in PHOENIX.
Guilds now have two poets on
their executivp; the Boomalaka
tnay yet scan.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE O F
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
The Governing Body of the Im-
perial College of Science and
Technology has elected its Chair-
man, Sir Roger Makins, G.C.B.,
G.C.M.G., D.C.L., Hon.M.I.C.E.
to Fellowship of the College.
Mr. Edward Heath was re-
cently quoted as attributing the
sudden flourishing of the cor-
douroy velvet trade to the popu-
larity of the Beatles. Whatever
the reason the fact remains that
" cord" is rapidly becoming
very popular for all kinds of
clothes and any girl who has
Christmas gifts of money as yet
unspent or wants to blue some
of her grant on a new coat, dress
or suit need look no further when
deciding On fabric. Cordouroy
is smart, warm and does not
stretch or " seat" like so many
tweeds, which makes it ideal also
for an everyday skirt for wearing
to lectures. And home dress-
makers will find it sold by the
yard in many exciting colours, by
several of the large West End
stores — personal favourites:
cherry red, mustard and saphire.
Prices are very reasonable aver-
aging 7/11 per yard for dress
weight and 9/11 for suit or skirt
weight material, while some shops
are stocking a showerproof ver-
sion at 13/11 per yd. These com-
paratively low prices are reflec-
ted, too, in the cost of ready-to-
wear corduroy clothes, of which a
large selection is gradually ap-
pearing in shops as sale stock is
cleared.
Boots
High boots are, of course, high
fashion, but make sure when
buying them that their leather is
soft and pliable otherwise it will
lead to concertina creases and
splitting round the ankles. The
only remedies are antique or
sportsmans' boot-trees, quite ex-
pensive and hard to find.
F E L I X F A I R Y TALES
NUMBER ONE
MOTHER GOOSE
M
N
T P
U
T Rli V
O
U
R B
A
S
K
E
T
S I
N 0
N
£ E
C
U
MATERIALS F O R T H E
MILLIONS
T.W.3 is out. I.C. is in. That's
the latest news from Wood Lane.
The B.B.C. has asked I.C. to do
ten programmes on materials for
Chanriel 2.
One of the aims is to improve
the public's image of the engineer.
Rumour has it, he's a pcruffy
man with a spanner.
ft
Tights
Selfridges are stocking tights in
a Paisley design—tipped as a hot
favourite to oust tartan in the'
spring—at around a pound a pair.
Salesgirl's verdict- " they're sel-
ling like hot cakes."
Girls who find ordinary tights
too short in the leg will be pleased
to learn that the Tall Girls' shop,
(33 Sackville Street off Piccadilly
Circus) have Kayser Bondor long
and super long tights in a wide
range of colours and texture.
Price: from 24/11.
Footnote:
To close with another reference
to the subjects of my opening
remarks—I saw in a Canterbury
store the latest manifestation of
Beatlemania: at 6/11 a pair they
were sellingfand how!) stockings
patterned with Beetles.
What price Beatlecrushers?
G R A N T F O R TRANSPORT
STUDIES
The Nuffield Foundation have
granted £45,500 to Imperial Col-
lege to enable Professor Colin
Buchanan to continue the studies
on which he has recently been
engaged in the Ministry of Trans-
port. The particular topics which
it is proposed to study are
American transportation survey
methods, the use of cost-benefit,
analysis for urban road and re-
development projects, environ-
mental standards in relation to
traffic, and alternative movement
systems for urban areas.
L A M L E Y ' S
TECHNICAL & G E N E R A L
BOOKS
A R T MATERIALS
DRAWING
INSTRUMENTS
STATIONERY
PAPERBACKS
1, 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD,
LONDON, S.W.7

